.. include:: _contributors.rst

.. currentmodule:: sklearn

.. _changes_0_24:

Version 0.24.0
==============

**December 2020**

For a short description of the main highlights of the release, please
refer to
:ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_release_highlights_plot_release_highlights_0_24_0.py`.

.. include:: changelog_legend.inc

Put the changes in their relevant module.

Changed models
--------------

The following estimators and functions, when fit with the same data and
parameters, may produce different models from the previous version. This often
occurs due to changes in the modelling logic (bug fixes or enhancements), or in
random sampling procedures.

- |Fix| :class:`decomposition.KernelPCA` behaviour is now more consistent
  between 32-bits and 64-bits data when the kernel has small positive
  eigenvalues.

- |Fix| :class:`decomposition.TruncatedSVD` becomes deterministic by exposing
  a `random_state` parameter.

- |Fix| :class:`linear_model.Perceptron` when `penalty='elasticnet'`.

Details are listed in the changelog below.

(While we are trying to better inform users by providing this information, we
cannot assure that this list is complete.)


Changelog
---------

..
    Entries should be grouped by module (in alphabetic order) and prefixed with
    one of the labels: |MajorFeature|, |Feature|, |Efficiency|, |Enhancement|,
    |Fix| or |API| (see whats_new.rst for descriptions).
    Entries should be ordered by those labels (e.g. |Fix| after |Efficiency|).
    Changes not specific to a module should be listed under *Multiple Modules*
    or *Miscellaneous*.
    Entries should end with:
    :pr:`123456` by :user:`Joe Bloggs <joeongithub>`.
    where 123456 is the *pull request* number, not the issue number.

:mod:`sklearn.base`
...................

- |Fix| :meth:`base.BaseEstimator.get_params` now will raise an
  `AttributeError` if a parameter cannot be retrieved as
  an instance attribute. Previously it would return `None`.
  :pr:`17448` by :user:`Juan Carlos Alfaro Jiménez <alfaro96>`.

:mod:`sklearn.calibration`
..........................

- |Efficiency| :class:`calibration.CalibratedClassifierCV.fit` now supports
  parallelization via `joblib.Parallel` using argument `n_jobs`.
  :pr:`17107` by :user:`Julien Jerphanion <jjerphan>`.

- |Enhancement| Allow :class:`calibration.CalibratedClassifierCV` use with
  prefit :class:`pipeline.Pipeline` where data is not `X` is not array-like,
  sparse matrix or dataframe at the start. :pr:`17546` by
  :user:`Lucy Liu <lucyleeow>`.

- |Enhancement| Add `ensemble` parameter to
  :class:`calibration.CalibratedClassifierCV`, which enables implementation
  of calibration via an ensemble of calibrators (current method) or
  just one calibrator using all the data (similar to the built-in feature of
  :mod:`sklearn.svm` estimators with the `probabilities=True` parameter).
  :pr:`17856` by :user:`Lucy Liu <lucyleeow>` and
  :user:`Andrea Esuli <aesuli>`.

:mod:`sklearn.cluster`
......................

- |Enhancement| :class:`cluster.AgglomerativeClustering` has a new parameter
  `compute_distances`. When set to `True`, distances between clusters are
  computed and stored in the `distances_` attribute even when the parameter
  `distance_threshold` is not used. This new parameter is useful to produce
  dendrogram visualizations, but introduces a computational and memory
  overhead. :pr:`17984` by :user:`Michael Riedmann <mriedmann>`,
  :user:`Emilie Delattre <EmilieDel>`, and
  :user:`Francesco Casalegno <FrancescoCasalegno>`.

- |Enhancement| :class:`cluster.SpectralClustering` and
  :func:`cluster.spectral_clustering` have a new keyword argument `verbose`.
  When set to `True`, additional messages will be displayed which can aid with
  debugging. :pr:`18052` by :user:`Sean O. Stalley <sstalley>`.

- |Enhancement| Added :func:`cluster.kmeans_plusplus` as public function.
  Initialization by KMeans++ can now be called separately to generate
  initial cluster centroids. :pr:`17937` by :user:`g-walsh`

- |API| :class:`cluster.MiniBatchKMeans` attributes, `counts_` and
  `init_size_`, are deprecated and will be removed in 0.26. :pr:`17864` by
  :user:`Jérémie du Boisberranger <jeremiedbb>`.

:mod:`sklearn.compose`
......................

- |Fix| :class:`compose.ColumnTransformer` will skip transformers the
  column selector is a list of bools that are False. :pr:`17616` by
  `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Fix| :class:`compose.ColumnTransformer` now displays the remainder in the
  diagram display. :pr:`18167` by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Fix| :class:`compose.ColumnTransformer` enforces strict count and order
  of column names between `fit` and `transform` by raising an error instead
  of a warning, following the deprecation cycle.
  :pr:`18256` by :user:`Madhura Jayratne <madhuracj>`.

:mod:`sklearn.covariance`
.........................

- |API| Deprecates `cv_alphas_` in favor of `cv_results_['alphas']` and
  `grid_scores_` in favor of split scores in `cv_results_` in
  :class:`covariance.GraphicalLassoCV`. `cv_alphas_` and `grid_scores_` will be
  removed in version 0.26. :pr:`16392` by `Thomas Fan`_.

:mod:`sklearn.cross_decomposition`
..................................

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSSVD` which would
  sometimes return components in the reversed order of importance.
  :pr:`17095` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSSVD`,
  :class:`cross_decomposition.CCA`, and
  :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSCanonical`, which would lead to incorrect
  predictions for `est.transform(Y)` when the training data is single-target.
  :pr:`17095` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |Fix| Increases the stability of :class:`cross_decomposition.CCA` :pr:`18746`
  by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |API| For :class:`cross_decomposition.NMF`,
  the `init` value, when 'init=None' and
  n_components <= min(n_samples, n_features) will be changed from
  `'nndsvd'` to `'nndsvda'` in 0.26.
  :pr:`18525` by :user:`Chiara Marmo <cmarmo>`.

- |API| The bounds of the `n_components` parameter is now restricted:

  - into `[1, min(n_samples, n_features, n_targets)]`, for
    :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSSVD`, :class:`cross_decomposition.CCA`,
    and :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSCanonical`.
  - into `[1, n_features]` or :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSRegression`.

  An error will be raised in 0.26. :pr:`17095` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |API| For :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSSVD`,
  :class:`cross_decomposition.CCA`, and
  :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSCanonical`, the `x_scores_` and `y_scores_`
  attributes were deprecated and will be removed in 0.26. They can be
  retrieved by calling `transform` on the training data. The `norm_y_weights`
  attribute will also be removed. :pr:`17095` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |API| For :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSRegression`,
  :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSCanonical`,
  :class:`cross_decomposition.CCA`, and
  :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSSVD`, the `x_mean_`, `y_mean_`, `x_std_`, and
  `y_std_` attributes were deprecated and will be removed in 0.26.
  :pr:`18768` by :user:`Maren Westermann <marenwestermann>`.

- |Fix| :class:`decomposition.TruncatedSVD` becomes deterministic by using the
  `random_state`. It controls the weights' initialization of the underlying
  ARPACK solver.
  :pr:` #18302` by :user:`Gaurav Desai <gauravkdesai>` and
  :user:`Ivan Panico <FollowKenny>`.

:mod:`sklearn.datasets`
.......................

- |Feature| :func:`datasets.fetch_openml` now validates md5 checksum of arff
  files downloaded or cached to ensure data integrity.
  :pr:`14800` by :user:`Shashank Singh <shashanksingh28>` and `Joel Nothman`_.

- |Feature| :func:`datasets.fetch_openml` now validates md5checksum of arff
  files downloaded or cached to ensure data integrity.
  :pr:`14800` by :user:`Shashank Singh <shashanksingh28>` and `Joel Nothman`_.

- |Enhancement| :func:`datasets.fetch_openml` now allows argument `as_frame`
  to be 'auto', which tries to convert returned data to pandas DataFrame
  unless data is sparse.
  :pr:`17396` by :user:`Jiaxiang <fujiaxiang>`.

- |Enhancement| :func:`datasets.fetch_covtype` now now supports the optional
  argument `as_frame`; when it is set to True, the returned Bunch object's
  `data` and `frame` members are pandas DataFrames, and the `target` member is
  a pandas Series.
  :pr:`17491` by :user:`Alex Liang <tianchuliang>`.

- |Enhancement| :func:`datasets.fetch_kddcup99` now now supports the optional
  argument `as_frame`; when it is set to True, the returned Bunch object's
  `data` and `frame` members are pandas DataFrames, and the `target` member is
  a pandas Series.
  :pr:`18280` by :user:`Alex Liang <tianchuliang>` and
  `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- |Enhancement| :func:`datasets.fetch_20newsgroups_vectorized` now supports
  loading as a pandas ``DataFrame`` by setting ``as_frame=True``.
  :pr:`17499` by :user:`Brigitta Sipőcz <bsipocz>` and
  `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- |API| The default value of `as_frame` in :func:`datasets.fetch_openml` is
  changed from False to 'auto'.
  :pr:`17610` by :user:`Jiaxiang <fujiaxiang>`.

:mod:`sklearn.decomposition`
............................

- |Enhancement| :func:`decomposition.FactorAnalysis` now supports the optional
  argument `rotation`, which can take the value `None`, `'varimax'` or
  `'quartimax'`. :pr:`11064` by :user:`Jona Sassenhagen <jona-sassenhagen>`.

- |Enhancement| :class:`decomposition.NMF` now supports the optional parameter
  `regularization`, which can take the values `None`, 'components',
  'transformation' or 'both', in accordance with
  :func:`decomposition.NMF.non_negative_factorization`.
  :pr:`17414` by :user:`Bharat Raghunathan <Bharat123rox>`.

- |Fix| :class:`decomposition.KernelPCA` behaviour is now more consistent
  between 32-bits and 64-bits data input when the kernel has small positive
  eigenvalues. Small positive eigenvalues were not correctly discarded for
  32-bits data.
  :pr:`18149` by :user:`Sylvain Marié <smarie>`.

- |Fix| Fix :class:`decomposition.SparseCoder` such that it follows
  scikit-learn API and support cloning. The attribute `components_` is
  deprecated in 0.24 and will be removed in 0.26. This attribute was
  redundant with the `dictionary` attribute and constructor parameter.
  :pr:`17679` by :user:`Xavier Dupré <sdpython>`.

- |Fix| :meth:`TruncatedSVD.fit_transform` consistently returns the same
  as :meth:`TruncatedSVD.fit` followed by :meth:`TruncatedSVD.transform`.
  :pr:`18528` by :user:`Albert Villanova del Moral <albertvillanova>` and
  :user:`Ruifeng Zheng <zhengruifeng>`.

:mod:`sklearn.discriminant_analysis`
....................................

- |Enhancement| :class:`discriminant_analysis.LinearDiscriminantAnalysis` can
  now use custom covariance estimate by setting the `covariance_estimator`
  parameter. :pr:`14446` by :user:`Hugo Richard <hugorichard>`.

:mod:`sklearn.ensemble`
.......................

- |MajorFeature| :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingRegressor` and
  :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` now have native
  support for categorical features with the `categorical_features`
  parameter. :pr:`18394` by `Nicolas Hug`_ and `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Feature| :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingRegressor` and
  :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` now support the
  method `staged_predict`, which allows monitoring of each stage.
  :pr:`16985` by :user:`Hao Chun Chang <haochunchang>`.

- |Efficiency| break cyclic references in the tree nodes used internally in
  :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingRegressor` and
  :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` to allow for the timely
  garbage collection of large intermediate datastructures and to improve memory
  usage in `fit`. :pr:`18334` by `Olivier Grisel`_ `Nicolas Hug`_, `Thomas
  Fan`_ and `Andreas Müller`_.

- |Efficiency| Histogram initialization is now done in parallel in
  :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingRegressor` and
  :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` which results in speed
  improvement for problems that build a lot of nodes on multicore machines.
  :pr:`18341` by `Olivier Grisel`_, `Nicolas Hug`_, `Thomas Fan`_, and
  :user:`Egor Smirnov <SmirnovEgorRu>`.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in
  :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingRegressor` and
  :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` which can now accept data
  with `uint8` dtype in `predict`. :pr:`18410` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |API| The parameter ``n_classes_`` is now deprecated in
  :class:`ensemble.GradientBoostingRegressor` and returns `1`.
  :pr:`17702` by :user:`Simona Maggio <simonamaggio>`.

- |API| Mean absolute error ('mae') is now deprecated for the parameter
  ``criterion`` in :class:`ensemble.GradientBoostingRegressor` and
  :class:`ensemble.GradientBoostingClassifier`.
  :pr:`18326` by :user:`Madhura Jayaratne <madhuracj>`.

:mod:`sklearn.exceptions`
.........................

- |API| :class:`exceptions.ChangedBehaviorWarning` and
  :class:`exceptions.NonBLASDotWarning` are deprecated and will be removed in
  v0.26, :pr:`17804` by `Adrin Jalali`_.

:mod:`sklearn.feature_extraction`
.................................

- |Enhancement| :class:`feature_extraction.DictVectorizer` accepts multiple
  values for one categorical feature. :pr:`17367` by :user:`Peng Yu <yupbank>`
  and :user:`Chiara Marmo <cmarmo>`.

- |Fix| :class:`feature_extraction.CountVectorizer` raises an issue if a
  custom token pattern which capture more than one group is provided.
  :pr:`15427` by :user:`Gangesh Gudmalwar <ggangesh>` and
  :user:`Erin R Hoffman <hoffm386>`.

:mod:`sklearn.feature_selection`
................................

- |Feature| Added :class:`feature_selection.SequentialFeatureSelector`
  which implements forward and backward sequential feature selection.
  :pr:`6545` by `Sebastian Raschka`_ and :pr:`17159` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |Feature| A new parameter `importance_getter` was added to
  :class:`feature_selection.RFE`, :class:`feature_selection.RFECV` and
  :class:`feature_selection.SelectFromModel`, allowing the user to specify an
  attribute name/path or a `callable` for extracting feature importance from
  the estimator.  :pr:`15361` by :user:`Venkatachalam N <venkyyuvy>`.

- |Efficiency| Reduce memory footprint in
  :func:`feature_selection.mutual_info_classif`
  and :func:`feature_selection.mutual_info_regression` by calling
  :class:`neighbors.KDTree` for counting nearest neighbors. :pr:`17878` by
  :user:`Noel Rogers <noelano>`.

- |Enhancement| :class:`feature_selection.RFE` supports the option for the
  number of `n_features_to_select` to be given as a float representing the
  percentage of features to select.
  :pr:`17090` by :user:`Lisa Schwetlick <lschwetlick>` and
  :user:`Marija Vlajic Wheeler <marijavlajic>`.

:mod:`sklearn.gaussian_process`
...............................

- |Enhancement| A new method
  :meth:`gaussian_process.Kernel._check_bounds_params` is called after
  fitting a Gaussian Process and raises a ``ConvergenceWarning`` if the bounds
  of the hyperparameters are too tight.
  :issue:`12638` by :user:`Sylvain Lannuzel <SylvainLan>`.

:mod:`sklearn.impute`
.....................

- |Feature| :class:`impute.SimpleImputer` now supports a list of strings
  when ``strategy='most_frequent'`` or ``strategy='constant'``.
  :pr:`17526` by :user:`Ayako YAGI <yagi-3>` and
  :user:`Juan Carlos Alfaro Jiménez <alfaro96>`.

- |Feature| Added method :meth:`impute.SimpleImputer.inverse_transform` to
  revert imputed data to original when instantiated with
  ``add_indicator=True``. :pr:`17612` by :user:`Srimukh Sripada <d3b0unce>`.

- |Fix| replace the default values in :class:`impute.IterativeImputer`
  of `min_value` and `max_value` parameters to `-np.inf` and `np.inf`,
  respectively instead of `None`. However, the behaviour of the class does not
  change since `None` was defaulting to these values already.
  :pr:`16493` by :user:`Darshan N <DarshanGowda0>`.

- |Fix| :class:`impute.IterativeImputer` will not attempt to set the
  estimator's `random_state` attribute, allowing to use it with more external classes.
  :pr:`15636` by :user:`David Cortes <david-cortes>`.

:mod:`sklearn.inspection`
.........................

- |Feature| :func:`inspection.partial_dependence` and
  :func:`inspection.plot_partial_dependence` now support calculating and
  plotting Individual Conditional Expectation (ICE) curves controlled by the
  ``kind`` parameter.
  :pr:`16619` by :user:`Madhura Jayratne <madhuracj>`.

- |Feature| Add `sample_weight` parameter to
  :func:`inspection.permutation_importance`. :pr:`16906` by
  :user:`Roei Kahny <RoeiKa>`.

- |API| Positional arguments are deprecated in
  :meth:`inspection.PartialDependenceDisplay.plot` and will error in 0.26.
  :pr:`18293` by `Thomas Fan`_.

:mod:`sklearn.isotonic`
.......................

- |Feature| Expose fitted attributes ``X_thresholds_`` and ``y_thresholds_``
  that hold the de-duplicated interpolation thresholds of an
  :class:`isotonic.IsotonicRegression` instance for model inspection purpose.
  :pr:`16289` by :user:`Masashi Kishimoto <kishimoto-banana>` and
  :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>`.

- |Enhancement| :class:`isotonic.IsotonicRegression` now accepts 2d array with
  1 feature as input array. :pr:`17379` by :user:`Jiaxiang <fujiaxiang>`.

- |Fix| Add tolerance when determining duplicate X values to prevent
  inf values from being predicted by :class:`isotonic.IsotonicRegression`.
  :pr:`18639` by :user:`Lucy Liu <lucyleeow>`.

:mod:`sklearn.kernel_approximation`
...................................

- |Feature| Added class :class:`kernel_approximation.PolynomialCountSketch`
  which implements the Tensor Sketch algorithm for polynomial kernel feature
  map approximation.
  :pr:`13003` by :user:`Daniel López Sánchez <lopeLH>`.

- |Efficiency| :class:`kernel_approximation.Nystroem` now supports
  parallelization via `joblib.Parallel` using argument `n_jobs`.
  :pr:`18545` by :user:`Laurenz Reitsam <LaurenzReitsam>`.

:mod:`sklearn.linear_model`
...........................

- |Feature| :class:`linear_model.LinearRegression` now forces coefficients
  to be all positive when ``positive`` is set to ``True``.
  :pr:`17578` by :user:`Joseph Knox <jknox13>`,
  :user:`Nelle Varoquaux <NelleV>` and :user:`Chiara Marmo <cmarmo>`.

- |Enhancement| :class:`linear_model.RidgeCV` now supports finding an optimal
  regularization value `alpha` for each target separately by setting
  ``alpha_per_target=True``. This is only supported when using the default
  efficient leave-one-out cross-validation scheme ``cv=None``. :pr:`6624` by
  :user:`Marijn van Vliet <wmvanvliet>`.

- |Fix| Fixes bug in :class:`linear_model.TheilSenRegressor` where
  `predict` and `score` would fail when `fit_intercept=False` and there was
  one feature during fitting. :pr:`18121` by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Fix| Fixes bug in :class:`linear_model.ARDRegression` where `predict`
  was raising an error when `normalize=True` and `return_std=True` because
  `X_offset_` and `X_scale_` were undefined.
  :pr:`18607` by :user:`fhaselbeck <fhaselbeck>`.

- |Fix| Added the missing `l1_ratio` parameter in
  :class:`linear_model.Perceptron`, to be used when `penalty='elasticnet'`.
  This changes the default from 0 to 0.15. :pr:`18622` by
  :user:`Haesun Park <rickiepark>`.

:mod:`sklearn.manifold`
.......................

- |Efficiency| Fixed :issue:`10493`. Improve Local Linear Embedding (LLE)
  that raised `MemoryError` exception when used with large inputs.
  :pr:`17997` by :user:`Bertrand Maisonneuve <bmaisonn>`.

- |Enhancement| Add `square_distances` parameter to :class:`manifold.TSNE`,
  which provides backward compatibility during deprecation of legacy squaring
  behavior. Distances will be squared by default in 0.26, and this parameter
  will be removed in 0.28. :pr:`17662` by
  :user:`Joshua Newton <joshuacwnewton>`.

- |Fix| :class:`manifold.MDS` now correctly sets its `_pairwise` attribute.
  :pr:`18278` by `Thomas Fan`_.

:mod:`sklearn.metrics`
......................

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.cluster.pair_confusion_matrix` implementing
  the confusion matrix arising from pairs of elements from two clusterings.
  :pr:`17412` by :user:`Uwe F Mayer <ufmayer>`.

- |Feature| new metric :func:`metrics.top_k_accuracy_score`. It's a
  generalization of :func:`metrics.top_k_accuracy_score`, the difference is
  that a prediction is considered correct as long as the true label is
  associated with one of the `k` highest predicted scores.
  :func:`accuracy_score` is the special case of `k = 1`.
  :pr:`16625` by :user:`Geoffrey Bolmier <gbolmier>`.

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.det_curve` to compute Detection Error Tradeoff
  curve classification metric.
  :pr:`10591` by :user:`Jeremy Karnowski <jkarnows>` and
  :user:`Daniel Mohns <dmohns>`.

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.plot_det_curve` and
  :class:`metrics.DetCurveDisplay` to ease the plot of DET curves.
  :pr:`18176` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.mean_absolute_percentage_error` metric and
  the associated scorer for regression problems. :issue:`10708` fixed with the
  PR :pr:`15007` by :user:`Ashutosh Hathidara <ashutosh1919>`. The scorer and
  some practical test cases were taken from PR :pr:`10711` by
  :user:`Mohamed Ali Jamaoui <mohamed-ali>`.

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.rand_score` implementing the (unadjusted)
  Rand index.
  :pr:`17412` by :user:`Uwe F Mayer <ufmayer>`.

- |Feature| :func:`metrics.plot_confusion_matrix` now supports making colorbar
  optional in the matplotlib plot by setting `colorbar=False`. :pr:`17192` by
  :user:`Avi Gupta <avigupta2612>`

- |Feature| :func:`metrics.plot_confusion_matrix` now supports making colorbar
  optional in the matplotlib plot by setting colorbar=False. :pr:`17192` by
  :user:`Avi Gupta <avigupta2612>`.

- |Enhancement| Add `sample_weight` parameter to
  :func:`metrics.median_absolute_error`. :pr:`17225` by
  :user:`Lucy Liu <lucyleeow>`.

- |Enhancement| Add `pos_label` parameter in
  :func:`metrics.plot_precision_recall_curve` in order to specify the positive
  class to be used when computing the precision and recall statistics.
  :pr:`17569` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- |Enhancement| Add `pos_label` parameter in
  :func:`metrics.plot_roc_curve` in order to specify the positive
  class to be used when computing the roc auc statistics.
  :pr:`17651` by :user:`Clara Matos <claramatos>`.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in
  :func:`metrics.classification_report` which was raising AttributeError
  when called with `output_dict=True` for 0-length values.
  :pr:`17777` by :user:`Shubhanshu Mishra <napsternxg>`.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in
  :func:`metrics.classification_report` which was raising AttributeError
  when called with `output_dict=True` for 0-length values.
  :pr:`17777` by :user:`Shubhanshu Mishra <napsternxg>`.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in
  :func:`metrics.jaccard_score` which recommended the `zero_division`
  parameter when called with no true or predicted samples.
  :pr:`17826` by :user:`Richard Decal <crypdick>` and
  :user:`Joseph Willard <josephwillard>`

- |Fix| bug in :func:`metrics.hinge_loss` where error occurs when
  ``y_true`` is missing some labels that are provided explictly in the
  ``labels`` parameter.
  :pr:`17935` by :user:`Cary Goltermann <Ultramann>`.

- |Fix| Fix scorers that accept a pos_label parameter and compute their metrics
  from values returned by `decision_function` or `predict_proba`. Previously,
  they would return erroneous values when pos_label was not corresponding to
  `classifier.classes_[1]`. This is especially important when training
  classifiers directly with string labeled target classes.
  :pr:`18114` by :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

- |Fix| Fixed bug in :func:`metrics.plot_confusion_matrix` where error occurs
  when `y_true` contains labels that were not previously seen by the classifier
  while the `labels` and `display_labels` parameters are set to `None`.
  :pr:`18405` by :user:`Thomas J. Fan <thomasjpfan>` and
  :user:`Yakov Pchelintsev <kyouma>`.

:mod:`sklearn.model_selection`
..............................

- |MajorFeature| Added (experimental) parameter search estimators
  :class:`model_selection.HalvingRandomSearchCV` and
  :class:`model_selection.HalvingGridSearchCV` which implement Successive
  Halving, and can be used as a drop-in replacements for
  :class:`model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV` and
  :class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV`. :pr:`13900` by `Nicolas Hug`_, `Joel
  Nothman`_ and `Andreas Müller`_.

- |Feature| :class:`model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV` and
  :class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV` now have the method ``score_samples``
  :pr:`17478` by :user:`Teon Brooks <teonbrooks>` and
  :user:`Mohamed Maskani <maskani-moh>`.

- |Enhancement| :class:`model_selection.TimeSeriesSplit` has two new keyword
  arguments `test_size` and `gap`. `test_size` allows the out-of-sample
  time series length to be fixed for all folds. `gap` removes a fixed number of
  samples between the train and test set on each fold.
  :pr:`13204` by :user:`Kyle Kosic <kykosic>`.

- |Enhancement| :func:`model_selection.permutation_test_score` and
  :func:`model_selection.validation_curve` now accept fit_params
  to pass additional estimator parameters.
  :pr:`18527` by :user:`Gaurav Dhingra <gxyd>`,
  :user:`Julien Jerphanion <jjerphan>` and :user:`Amanda Dsouza <amy12xx>`.

- |Enhancement| :func:`model_selection.cross_val_score`,
  :func:`model_selection.cross_validate`,
  :class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV`, and
  :class:`model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV` allows estimator to fail scoring
  and replace the score with `error_score`. If `error_score="raise"`, the error
  will be raised.
  :pr:`18343` by `Guillaume Lemaitre`_ and :user:`Devi Sandeep <dsandeep0138>`.

- |Enhancement| :func:`model_selection.learning_curve` now accept fit_params
  to pass additional estimator parameters.
  :pr:`18595` by :user:`Amanda Dsouza <amy12xx>`.

- |Fix| Fixed the `len` of :class:`model_selection.ParameterSampler` when
  all distributions are lists and `n_iter` is more than the number of unique
  parameter combinations. :pr:`18222` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |Fix| A fix to raise warning when one or more CV splits of
  :class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV` and
  :class:`model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV` results in non-finite scores.
  :pr:`18266` by :user:`Subrat Sahu <subrat93>`,
  :user:`Nirvan <Nirvan101>` and :user:`Arthur Book <ArthurBook>`.

:mod:`sklearn.multiclass`
.........................

- |Enhancement| :class:`multiclass.OneVsOneClassifier` now accepts
  the inputs with missing values. Hence, estimators which can handle
  missing values (may be a pipeline with imputation step) can be used as
  a estimator for multiclass wrappers.
  :pr:`17987` by :user:`Venkatachalam N <venkyyuvy>`.

- |Fix| A fix to allow :class:`multiclass.OutputCodeClassifier` to accept
  sparse input data in its `fit` and `predict` methods. The check for
  validity of the input is now delegated to the base estimator.
  :pr:`17233` by :user:`Zolisa Bleki <zoj613>`.

:mod:`sklearn.multioutput`
..........................

- |Enhancement| :class:`multioutput.MultiOutputClassifier` and
  :class:`multioutput.MultiOutputRegressor` now accepts the inputs
  with missing values. Hence, estimators which can handle missing
  values (may be a pipeline with imputation step, HistGradientBoosting
  estimators) can be used as a estimator for multiclass wrappers.
  :pr:`17987` by :user:`Venkatachalam N <venkyyuvy>`.

- |Fix| A fix to accept tuples for the ``order`` parameter
  in :class:`multioutput.ClassifierChain`.
  :pr:`18124` by :user:`Gus Brocchini <boldloop>` and
  :user:`Amanda Dsouza <amy12xx>`.

:mod:`sklearn.naive_bayes`
..........................

- |Enhancement| Adds a parameter `min_categories` to
  :class:`naive_bayes.CategoricalNB` that allows a minimum number of categories
  per feature to be specified. This allows categories unseen during training
  to be accounted for.
  :pr:`16326` by :user:`George Armstrong <gwarmstrong>`.

- |API| The attributes ``coef_`` and ``intercept_`` are now deprecated in
  :class:`naive_bayes.MultinomialNB`, :class:`naive_bayes.ComplementNB`,
  :class:`naive_bayes.BernoulliNB` and :class:`naive_bayes.CategoricalNB`,
  and will be removed in v0.26. :pr:`17427` by
  :user:`Juan Carlos Alfaro Jiménez <alfaro96>`.

:mod:`sklearn.neighbors`
........................

- |Efficiency| Speed up ``seuclidean``, ``wminkowski``, ``mahalanobis`` and
  ``haversine`` metrics in :class:`neighbors.DistanceMetric` by avoiding
  unexpected GIL acquiring in Cython when setting ``n_jobs>1`` in
  :class:`neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier`,
  :class:`neighbors.KNeighborsRegressor`,
  :class:`neighbors.RadiusNeighborsClassifier`,
  :class:`neighbors.RadiusNeighborsRegressor`,
  :func:`metrics.pairwise_distances`
  and by validating data out of loops.
  :pr:`17038` by :user:`Wenbo Zhao <webber26232>`.

- |Efficiency| :class:`neighbors.NeighborsBase` benefits of an improved
  `algorithm = 'auto'` heuristic. In addition to the previous set of rules,
  now, when the number of features exceeds 15, `brute` is selected, assuming
  the data intrinsic dimensionality is too high for tree-based methods.
  :pr:`17148` by :user:`Geoffrey Bolmier <gbolmier>`.

- |Fix| :class:`neighbors.BinaryTree`
  will raise a `ValueError` when fitting on data array having points with
  different dimensions.
  :pr:`18691` by :user:`Chiara Marmo <cmarmo>`.

- |Fix| :class:`neighbors.NearestCentroid` with a numerical `shrink_threshold`
  will raise a `ValueError` when fitting on data with all constant features.
  :pr:`18370` by :user:`Trevor Waite <trewaite>`.

- |Fix| In  methods `radius_neighbors` and
  `radius_neighbors_graph` of :class:`neighbors.NearestNeighbors`,
  :class:`neighbors.RadiusNeighborsClassifier`,
  :class:`neighbors.RadiusNeighborsRegressor`, and
  :class:`neighbors.RadiusNeighborsTransformer`, using `sort_results=True` now
  correctly sorts the results even when fitting with the "brute" algorithm.
  :pr:`18612` by `Tom Dupre la Tour`_.

:mod:`sklearn.neural_network`
.............................

- |Efficiency| Neural net training and prediction are now a little faster.
  :pr:`17603`, :pr:`17604`, :pr:`17606`, :pr:`17608`, :pr:`17609`, :pr:`17633`,
  :pr:`17661`, :pr:`17932` by :user:`Alex Henrie <alexhenrie>`.

- |Enhancement| Avoid converting float32 input to float64 in
  :class:`neural_network.BernoulliRBM`.
  :pr:`16352` by :user:`Arthur Imbert <Henley13>`.

- |Enhancement| Support 32-bit computations in
  :class:`neural_network.MLPClassifier` and
  :class:`neural_network.MLPRegressor`.
  :pr:`17759` by :user:`Srimukh Sripada <d3b0unce>`.

- |Fix| Fix method  :func:`fit` of :class:`neural_network.MLPClassifier`
  not iterating to ``max_iter`` if warm started.
  :pr:`18269` by :user:`Norbert Preining <norbusan>` and
  :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>`.

:mod:`sklearn.pipeline`
.......................

- |Enhancement| References to transformers passed through ``transformer_weights``
  to :class:`pipeline.FeatureUnion` that aren't present in ``transformer_list``
  will raise a ``ValueError``.
  :pr:`17876` by :user:`Cary Goltermann <Ultramann>`.

- |Fix| A slice of a :class:`pipeline.Pipeline` now inherits the parameters of
  the original pipeline (`memory` and `verbose`).
  :pr:`18429` by :user:`Albert Villanova del Moral <albertvillanova>` and
  :user:`Paweł Biernat <pwl>`.

:mod:`sklearn.preprocessing`
............................

- |Feature| :class:`preprocessing.OneHotEncoder` now supports missing
  values by treating them as a category. :pr:`17317` by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Feature| Add a new ``handle_unknown`` parameter with a
  ``use_encoded_value`` option, along with a new ``unknown_value`` parameter,
  to :class:`preprocessing.OrdinalEncoder` to allow unknown categories during
  transform and set the encoded value of the unknown categories.
  :pr:`17406` by :user:`Felix Wick <FelixWick>` and :pr:`18406` by
  `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |Feature| Add ``clip`` parameter to :class:`preprocessing.MinMaxScaler`,
  which clips the transformed values of test data to ``feature_range``.
  :pr:`17833` by :user:`Yashika Sharma <yashika51>`.

- |Feature| Add ``sample_weight`` parameter to
  :class:`preprocessing.StandardScaler`. Allows setting
  individual weights for each sample. :pr:`18510` and
  :pr:`18447` and :pr:`16066` and :pr:`18682` by
  :user:`Maria Telenczuk <maikia>` and :user:`Albert Villanova <albertvillanova>`
  and :user:`panpiort8` and :user:`Alex Gramfort <agramfort>`.

- |Enhancement| Verbose output of :class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV` has
  been improved for readability. :pr:`16935` by :user:`Raghav Rajagopalan
  <raghavrv>` and :user:`Chiara Marmo <cmarmo>`.

- |Enhancement| Add ``unit_variance`` to :class:`preprocessing.RobustScaler`,
  which scales output data such that normally distributed features have a
  variance of 1. :pr:`17193` by :user:`Lucy Liu <lucyleeow>` and
  :user:`Mabel Villalba <mabelvj>`.

- |Enhancement| Add `dtype` parameter to
  :class:`preprocessing.KBinsDiscretizer`.
  :pr:`16335` by :user:`Arthur Imbert <Henley13>`.

- |Fix| Raise error on
  :meth:`sklearn.preprocessing.OneHotEncoder.inverse_transform`
  when `handle_unknown='error'` and `drop=None` for samples
  encoded as all zeros. :pr:`14982` by
  :user:`Kevin Winata <kwinata>`.

:mod:`sklearn.semi_supervised`
..............................

- |MajorFeature| Added :class:`semi_supervised.SelfTrainingClassifier`, a
  meta-classifier that allows any supervised classifier to function as a
  semi-supervised classifier that can learn from unlabeled data. :issue:`11682`
  by :user:`Oliver Rausch <orausch>` and :user:`Patrice Becker <pr0duktiv>`.

- |Fix| Fix incorrect encoding when using unicode string dtypes in
  :class:`preprocessing.OneHotEncoder` and
  :class:`preprocessing.OrdinalEncoder`. :pr:`15763` by `Thomas Fan`_.

:mod:`sklearn.svm`
..................

- |Enhancement| invoke SciPy BLAS API for SVM kernel function in ``fit``,
  ``predict`` and related methods of :class:`svm.SVC`, :class:`svm.NuSVC`,
  :class:`svm.SVR`, :class:`svm.NuSVR`, :class:`OneClassSVM`.
  :pr:`16530` by :user:`Shuhua Fan <jim0421>`.

:mod:`sklearn.tree`
...................

- |Feature| :class:`tree.DecisionTreeRegressor` now supports the new splitting
  criterion ``'poisson'`` useful for modeling count data. :pr:`17386` by
  :user:`Christian Lorentzen <lorentzenchr>`.

- |Enhancement| :func:`tree.plot_tree` now uses colors from the matplotlib
  configuration settings. :pr:`17187` by `Andreas Müller`_.

- |API| The parameter ``X_idx_sorted`` is now deprecated in
  :meth:`tree.DecisionTreeClassifier.fit` and
  :meth:`tree.DecisionTreeRegressor.fit`, and has not effect.
  :pr:`17614` by :user:`Juan Carlos Alfaro Jiménez <alfaro96>`.

:mod:`sklearn.utils`
....................

- |Enhancement| Add ``check_methods_sample_order_invariance`` to
  :func:`~utils.estimator_checks.check_estimator`, which checks that
  estimator methods are invariant if applied to the same dataset
  with different sample order :pr:`17598` by :user:`Jason Ngo <ngojason9>`.

- |Enhancement| Add support for weights in
  :func:`utils.sparse_func.incr_mean_variance_axis`.
  By :user:`Maria Telenczuk <maikia>` and :user:`Alex Gramfort <agramfort>`.

- |Fix| Raise ValueError with clear error message in :func:`check_array`
  for sparse DataFrames with mixed types.
  :pr:`17992` by :user:`Thomas J. Fan <thomasjpfan>` and
  :user:`Alex Shacked <alexshacked>`.

- |Fix| Allow serialized tree based models to be unpickled on a machine
  with different endianness.
  :pr:`17644` by :user:`Qi Zhang <qzhang90>`.

- |Fix| Check that we raise proper error when axis=1 and the
  dimensions do not match in :func:`utils.sparse_func.incr_mean_variance_axis`.
  By :user:`Alex Gramfort <agramfort>`.

Miscellaneous
.............

- |Enhancement| Calls to ``repr`` are now faster
  when `print_changed_only=True`, especially with meta-estimators.
  :pr:`18508` by :user:`Nathan C. <Xethan>`.

Code and Documentation Contributors
-----------------------------------

Thanks to everyone who has contributed to the maintenance and improvement of
the project since version 0.23, including:

1kastner, 211217613, @nkish, A. Flaxman, Aaron Alphonsus, Aaron Schumacher, 
Aaron Staple, Aarshay Jain, Aashil, Abbie Popa, Abdur-Rahmaan Janhangeer, 
abenbihi, Abhijeet Kolhe, Abhinav Sagar, Abhishek Jana, abhishek thakur, 
Abhyuday Pratap Singh, Abo7atm, Abraham K. Lagat, absolutelyNoWarranty, Adam 
Greenhall, Adam J. Stewart, Adam Kleczewski, Adam Richie-Halford, Adam 
Spannbauer, adanhawth, adelr, Adithya Ganesh, Aditya Joshi, Aditya Vyas, 
AdityaDaflapurkar, Adrien Gaidon, Adrin Jalali, adrinjalali, affanv14, 
Agamemnon Krasoulis, ai8rahim, Aidan Fitzgerald, aishgrt1, AishwaryaRK, 
aivision2020, Akash Shivram, akitty, Akshay, akshay0724, akshayah3, Alan 
Liddell, Alan Yee, Albert Thomas, Alberto Torres, Aldrian Obaja, Alec Peters, 
Alejandro Correa Bahnsen, Alejandro Weinstein, Aleksandr Sandrovskii, 
Aleksandra Kocot, alemagnani, Alessandro Surace, alex, Alex Companioni, Alex 
Egg, Alex Henrie, Alex Itkes, Alex Liang, Alexander Fabisch, Alexander Junge, 
Alexander Lenail, Alexander Loginov, Alexander Measure, Alexander Minyushkin, 
Alexander Rudy, Alexander-N, alexandercbooth, Alexandre Abadie, Alexandre 
Abraham, Alexandre Batisse, Alexandre Boucaud, Alexandre de Siqueira, Alexandre 
Gramfort, Alexandre Passos, Alexandre Saint, Alexandre Sevin, Alexey Grigorev, 
alexfields, alexgoryainov, Alexis Metaireau, Alexis Mignon, alexshacked, Ali 
Baharev, Alison, Allen Akinkunle, Allen Riddell, Almer, Alonso Silva Allende, 
Alvaro Perez-Diaz, Alvaro Ulloa, Alyssa, Alyssa Batula, alyssaq, Aman Dalmia, 
Aman Pratik, Amanda, Amit Aides, Amlan Kar, amormachine, Amos Waterland, 
amourav, Ana Casado, Anaël Beaugnon, Anders Aagaard, Anders Kaseorg, Ando 
Saabas, Andrea Esuli, Andrea Maldonado, Andrea Navarrete, Andreas 
Bjerre-Nielsen, Andreas Mueller, Andreas Schuderer, Andreas van Cranenburgh, 
andreh7, Andrew Ash, Andrew Clegg, andrew giessel, Andrew Jackson, Andrew Lamb, 
Andrew McCulloh, Andrew Murray, Andrew Nystrom, Andrew Peng, Andrew Smith, 
Andrew Tulloch, Andrew Walker, Andrew Winterman, andy, Andy Craze, Ang Lu, 
Angela Ambroz, Angus Williams, Aniruddha Dave, Anish Shah, Anisha Keshavan, 
Ankit Agrawal, Ankit Jha, Ankit810, Ankur Ankan, annaayzenshtat, Anne-Laure 
Fouque, Anthony Erlinger, Anthony Gitter, Antoine Wendlinger, Antonin Carette, 
Antonio Gutierrez, Antonio Quinonez, Antony Lee, Anubhav Marwaha, Anuja Kelkar, 
Anze, ApproximateIdentity, Arafat, Archana Alva, Archit Sharma, Ari Rouvinen, 
Arie Pratama Sutiono, Ariel Rokem, Arik Pamnani, Arnaud Joly, Arnaud Rachez, 
arnaudstiegler, arpanchowdhry, Artem Golubin, Arthur Douillard, Arthur Imbert, 
Arthur Mensch, Arthur Ozga, Artiem K, Artsiom, Arunav Konwar, Arunava, Arya 
McCarthy, Aseem Bansal, Ash Hoover, ashimb9, Asish Mahapatra, assiaben, 
Attractadore, Aurélien Bellet, Aurélien Geron, Aymeric Masurelle, Ayomide 
Bamidele, Ayush Gupta, b0noI, Bala Subrahmanyam Varanasi, Balakumaran 
Manoharan, Bangda Sun, banilo, Baptiste Lagarde, Baptiste Maingret, Baran 
Buluttekin, Barmaley.exe, Barry Hart, barrycg, Bartosz Michałowski, Bartosz 
Telenczuk, Basil Beirouti, Bastiaan van den Berg, Bastian Venthur, bauks, 
Behzad Tabibian, Ben Davies, Ben Lawson, Ben Root, Benedikt Koehler, Benjamin 
Beier Liu, Benjamin Peterson, benjamin wilson, benjaminirving, BenjaStudio, 
Benn Roth, Bernardo Vecchia Stein, Bernhard Kratzwald, bernie gray, Bertrand 
Thirion, bertrandhaut, Bharat Raghunathan, Bharathi Srinivasan, Bhargav 
Mangipudi, bhsu, Bibhash Chandra Mitra, Bill Mill, Bing Tian Dai, Biswadip 
Mandal, blackd0t, blakeflei, bob, Bob Baxley, Bogdan Trach, Boris Feld, Borja 
Ayerdi, Boyuan Deng, brady salz, Brandon Carter, Brandyn A. White, Breno 
Freitas, Brent Pedersen, Brent Yi, brentfagan, brett koonce, Brett Naul, Brett 
Olsen, Brian A. Alfano, Brian Burns, Brian Cajes, Brian Cheung, Brian G. 
Barkley, Brian Holt, Brian Kearns, Brian McFee, Brian Wignall, brigi, Brigitta 
Sipőcz, Brooke Osborn, Bryan Lunt, Bryan Silverthorn, Bryan Woods, Bryan Yang, 
Buddha Prakash, buguen, Bussonnier Matthias, bwignall, c56pony, Caio Oliveira, 
Calvin Giles, Camil Staps, camilaagw, Camilo Lamus, campustrampus, Carlos H 
Brandt, Carlos Scheidegger, Carol Willing, cartman_nabana, Cass, CastaChick, 
castor, Cat Chenal, catajara, Cathy, Cathy Deng, cclauss, Celeo, CeShine Lee, 
cgohlke, cgsavard, Chady Kamar, chalmerlowe, Charles Earl, Charles McCarthy, 
Charles Truong, Charles Vesteghem, Charles-Pierre Astolfi, Charlie Brummitt, 
Charlie Newey, Charlton Austin, Chayant T15h, chebee7i, Chen Liu, Cheuk Ting 
Ho, Chi Zhang, Chiara Marmo, Chih-Wei Chang, Chinmaya Pancholi, chkoar, Chris, 
chris, Chris Catalfo, Chris Choe, Chris Filo Gorgolewski, Chris Foster, Chris 
Gregory, Chris Holdgraf, Christian Braune, Christian Danielsen, Christian 
Hirsch, Christian Hogan, Christian Jauvin, Christian Kastner, Christian 
Lorentzen, Christian Osendorfer, Christian Stade-Schuldt, Christof 
Angermueller, Christoph Deil, Christoph Gohlke, Christophe Bourguignat, 
Christopher Erick Moody, Christopher Jenness, Christos Aridas, Chung Yen, 
Chyi-Kwei Yau, Cindy Sridharan, CJ Carey, cjlin, Claire Revillet, Clay Woolam, 
Clemens Brunner, Clement Joudet, Clyde-fare, Clément Doumouro, cnx, codevig, 
Cole Smith, Colin Ni, Connossor, Conrad Lee, Corey Levinson, Corey Lynch, 
Corrie Bartelheimer, Cory Lorenz, Craig Thompson, csytracy, cwitte, Daiki 
Aminaka, Dakota Grusak, Dallas Card, Dan Barkhorn, Dan Blanchard, Dan Ellis, 
Dan O'Huiginn, Dan Shiebler, Dan Stine, Dan Yamins, danfrankj, Daniel, Daniel 
Duckworth, Daniel Ferreira, Daniel Galvez, Daniel Gomez, Daniel Grady, Daniel 
Hnyk, Daniel Klevebring, Daniel Kronovet, Daniel LeJeune, Daniel Mohns, Daniel 
Nouri, Daniel Perry, Daniel Velkov, Daniele Medri, Danielle Shwed, 
DanielWeitzenfeld, Danil Baibak, Daniël van Gelder, Danna Naser, Danny 
Sullivan, Danylo Baibak, Daphne, Darius Morawiec, Data1010, daten-kieker, 
DatenBergwerk, Dave Elliott, David, David Beach, David Breuer, David Burns, 
David Cournapeau, David D Lowe, David DeTomaso, David Dormagen, David Dotson, 
David Ellis, David Fletcher, David Gasquez, David Haberthür, David Heryanto, 
David Kirkby, David Marek, David Nicholson, David Pickup, David Robles, David 
Staub, David Thaler, David Warde-Farley, David Warshaw, david-cortes, Davide 
Lasagna, dbauer9, Deborah, Deborah Gertrude Digges, deeplook, 
definitelyuncertain, dengemann, Denis, Denis A. Engemann, Denis Engemann, Denis 
Kataev, Denton Cockburn, Derek, Devansh D, Dickson, Didi Bar-Zev, Diego Molla, 
diegodlh, Dillon Gardner, Dillon Niederhut, dilutedsauce, ditenberg, 
Divyaprabha M, djipey, dlovell, Dmitrijs Milajevs, Dmitry Mottl, Dmitry Petrov, 
Dmitry Spikhalskiy, Dmitry Vukolov, DOHMATOB Elvis, dokato, Don86, Dong-hee Na, 
Donne Martin, Dor Cohen, Doug Coleman, Dougal J. Sutherland, Dougal Sutherland, 
Douglas Duhaime, Dowon, draix, DraXus, drewmjohnston, DrGFreeman, Dror Atariah, 
dsquareindia, Dylan Cashman, dzikie drożdże, E. Lynch-Klarup, Ed Rogers, Eddy L 
O Jansson, Edouard DUCHESNAY, edson duarte, Eduardo Ariño de la Rubia, Eduardo 
Caro, edvardlindelof, Edward J Brown, Edward Qian, edwinENSAE, Ekaterina 
Borovikova, Ekaterina Krivich, Ekaterina Tuzova, elena-sharova, Elias Kuthe, 
Elizabeth Ferriss, Elizabeth Sander, Ellen-Co2, ELNS, eltermann, Elvis 
DOHMATOB, emanuele, Emily Taylor, Emmanuel Arias, Emmanuelle Gouillart, Eric 
Chang, Eric Dean Sanchez, Eric Jacobsen, Eric Larson, Eric Leung, Eric Martin, 
Eric Ndirangu, Erich Schubert, Erik Shilts, Erwin Marsi, esvhd, Ethan White, 
Eugene Nizhibitsky, Eunji, Eunseop Jeong, Eustache Diemert, Evgeni Chasnovski, 
Fabian Egli, Fabian Pedregosa, Fabiana, Fabio Ticconi, Facundo Ferrín, Falak, 
Fan, Fang-Chieh Chou, Fanny, FarahSaeed, Fazlul Shahriar, fcostin, Feda Curic, 
Federico Caselli, Federico Vaggi, federicopisanu, felix, Felix Brockherde, 
Felix Divo, fenx, Fernando Carrillo, ferria, Feth Arezki, Fibinse Xavier`, 
filipj8, Finn O'Shea, fisache, flaviomorelli, Florian Hoenig, Florian Wilhelm, 
floydsoft, FranciDona, Francis O'Donovan, Francis T. O'Donovan, Franco M. 
Luque, Francois Savard, Frank C. Eckert, Frank Hoang, Frank Zalkow, FrankHui, 
Franz Wompner, Franziska Boenisch, François Boulogne, Frederic Haase, Freija 
Descamps, frsi, fukatani, Félix Raimundo, Félix-Antoine Fortin, g0g0gadget, 
Gabriel Altay, Gabriel do Vale Rios, Gabriel Marzinotto, Gabriel Vacaliuc, 
Gabriele Calvo, Gael Varoquaux, ganevgv, Ganiev Ibraim, Garrett-R, Gary 
Foreman, Gaurav Dhingra, Gaurav Sharma, GauravAhlawat, gdex1, gedeck, Geoffrey 
Bolmier, Georgi Peev, getgaurav2, ghg, gholdman1, Gideon Sonoiya, Gil Forsyth, 
Gilles Louppe, Giorgio Patrini, Giovanni Cherubin, Giovanni Giuseppe Costa, 
Giovanni Lanzani, Giuseppe Vettigli, gkevinyen5418, Glenn Qian, 
goncalo-rodrigues, Gonthier Nicolas, Gordon Chen, Gordon Mohr, govin-vatsan, 
gpapadok, gpassino, Graham Clenaghan, Greg Gandenberger, Greg Mogavero, Greg 
Reda, Greg Stupp, Gregory Morse, Gregory R. Lee, Gryllos Prokopis, Grzegorz 
Szpak, Gui Miotto, Guilherme Trein, Guillaume "Vermeille" Sanchez, Guillaume 
Fournier, Guillaume Lemaitre, Guillem García Subies, guiniol, guoci, Gustav 
Mörtberg, Gustavo De Mari Pereira, gwulfs, H4dr1en, Hadrien Bertrand, hadshirt, 
Hailey Nguyen, hakaa1, halwai, Hampus Bengtsson, hamzeh, Hamzeh Alsalhi, Hanmin 
Qin, Hanna Wallach, Hannah Bohle, Hannah Bruce Macdonald, Hannes Schulz, Hao 
Chun Chang, HaoYin, Harikrishnan S, Harizo Rajaona, haroldfox, Harry 
Mavroforakis, Harsh Mahajan, Harsh Soni, hashcode55, Hasil Sharma, hdmetor, He 
Chen, Helder, Hendrik Heuer, Henry Lin, Herve Bredin, hhu-luqi, Himanshu Garg, 
Hirofumi Suzuki, Hobson Lane, Holger Peters, Hong, Honghe, hongkahjun, Honglu 
Zhang, Hossein Pourbozorg, Hrishikesh Huilgolkar, hrishikeshio, Hristo, 
Hsiang-Fu Yu, Hsuan-Tien Lin, huangk10, Hugo Bowne-Anderson, Hugo van Kemenade, 
Hugues SALAMIN, Hunan Rostomyan, Hunter McGushion, Hye Sung Jung, Hélion du Mas 
des Bourboux, i-am-xhy, iampat, Ian Gilmore, Ian Ozsvald, Ian Sanders, Ibraim 
Ganiev, Icyblade Dai, Ignacio Rossi, Igor Andriushchenko, Ilambharathi Kanniah, 
Ilya, Imaculate, Immanuel Bayer, Imran Haque, indecisiveuser, inderjeet, Ingrid 
Spielman, Inki Hwang, Isaac Laughlin, Isaac Sijaranamual, Ishank Gulati, isms, 
Issam Laradji, Ivan PANICO, Iver Jordal, IvicaJovic, Iván Vallés, J-A16, 
j0rd1smit, Jack Hale, Jack Martin, JackLangerman, jackmartin, Jacob Schreiber, 
Jacopo Notarstefano, Jacques Kvam, jaehong park, Jaewon Chung, Jaidev 
Deshpande, Jaime Ferrando Huertas, Jake VanderPlas, JakeMick, jakirkham, James 
A. Bednar, James Bergstra, James Bourbeau, James Fiedler, James Hill, James 
Malcolm, James McDermott, James Myatt, James Routley, James Yu, jamestwebber, 
Jamie Cox, Jan Dlabal, Jan Hendrik Metzen, Jan Koch, Jan Margeta, Jan S, Jan 
Schlüter, Jan Vesely, Janine Harper, Janna Brettingen, jansoe, janvanrijn, 
Jaques Grobler, jarfa, jaroslaw-weber, Jarrod Millman, Jason Laska, Jason 
Wolosonovich, Jatin Shah, Javier López Peña, Jay, Jaye, jayzed82, jbDelafosse, 
jblackburne, JC Liu, jdcaballero, jdethurens, Jean Helie, Jean Kossaifi, Jean 
Michel Rouly, Jeb Bearer, Jeff Hammerbacher, jeff levesque, Jeffrey Blackburne, 
Jeffrey04, Jelle Zijlstra, jeremiedbb, Jeremy, Jeremy Hintz, Jeremy Steward, 
jeremynixon, Jeroen Van Goey, jeroko, jeromedockes, Jesper Dramsch, jess010, 
Jessica Yung, JF, jfraj, Jiali Mei, Jill-Jênn Vie, Jim Holmström, Jimmy Jia, 
Jimmy Wan, Jin-Hwan CHO, Jinkun Wang, Jiongyan Zhang, Jiyuan Qian, jjabl, 
JJmistry, jkleint, jmontoyam, jnothman, joaak, Joan Massich, Joanna Zhang, 
Jochen Wersdörfer, Joe Jevnik, Joel Nothman, Johann Faouzi, johannah, Johannes 
Hansen, Johannes Schönberger, John, John B Nelson, John Benediktsson, John 
Boersma, john collins, John Kirkham, John Moeller, John Schmidt, John Wei, John 
Wittenauer, John Zwinck, JohnStott, Jon Crall, Jon Cusick, Jon Haitz Legarreta 
Gorroño, Jonatan Samoocha, Jonathan Helmus, Jonathan LIgo, Jonathan Ohayon, 
Jonathan Rahn, jonathan.striebel, joncrall, Joonas Sillanpää, Jordi, Jorge 
Cañardo Alastuey, Joris Van den Bossche, Jose Ortiz, Jose Perez-Parras 
Toledano, Joseph, Joseph Munoz, Joseph Perla, josephsalmon, Josh Karnofsky, 
Josh Levy, Joshua Cook, Joshua Loyal, Joshua Vredevoogd, José Ricardo, jotasi, 
Joël Billaud, JPFrancoia, jrfiedler, jschendel, Juan Carlos Alfaro Jiménez, 
Juan Manuel Caicedo Carvajal, judithabk6, Julian Kuhlmann, JulianKahnert, 
juliathebrave, Julien Aubert, Julien Chaumond, Julien Miotte, julietcl, jumon, 
Jungkook Park, Justin Pati, Justin Shenk, Justin Vincent, Jérémie du 
Boisberranger, Jérémie Méhault, Jörg Döpfert, Jörn Hees, Kai, Kaicheng Zhang, 
kaichogami, KamalakerDadi, Kamel Ibn Hassen Derouiche, Kanika Sabharwal, Karan 
Desai, Karl F, Karol Pysniak, Kashif Rasul, Kasper Primdal Lauritzen, Kat 
Hempstalk, Katarina Slama, Kathryn Poole, Kathy Chen, Katie Luangkote, Katrin 
Leinweber, Katrina Ni, Kaushik Lakshmikanth, kaushik94, Keith Goodman, 
kellycarmody, Kemal Eren, ken, Ken Geis, Kennedy, Kennedy Kang'ethe, Kenneth C. 
Arnold, Kenneth Lyons, Kenneth Myers, Kensuke Arai, Kenta Sato, Kernc, Kesshi 
Jordan, Kevad, Kevin Hughes, Kevin Loftis, Kevin Markham, Kevin Wang, Kevin 
Winata, Kevin Yap, Kevin Yu-Sheng Li, Kian Ho, kingjr, Kirill, Kirill Bobyrev, 
Kirill Dolmatov, Kirthi Shankar Sivamani, kjell, kms15, Koen, Konstantin 
Podshumok, Konstantin Shmelkov, Kornel Kielczewski, Kossori Aruku, kowalski87, 
Krishna Kalyan, krishna katyal, Krishna Sangeeth, krishnachaitanya9, 
krishnakalyan3, ksemb, Kuai Yu, Kulbear, Kumar Ashutosh, Kushal Chauhan, Kvle 
Putnam, Kye Taylor, Kyeongpil Kang, Kyle Beauchamp, Kyle Gilliam, Kyle Jackson, 
Kyle Kastner, Kyle Kelley, kyledrogo, Kyler Brown, Lagacherie Matthieu, Lakshmi 
Krishnan, Lakshya KD, LalliAcqua, Lam Gia Thuan, Lars Buitinck, Laurent Direr, 
Laurent Luce, Laurent Pierron, lbfin, ldavid, ldirer, Leandro Hermida, Lee 
Murray, Lee Yi Jie Joel, leepei, leereeves, LeiG, LeightonZhang, Leland 
McInnes, leonpalafox, Lera, Li Li, Liam Geron, Liang-Chi Hsieh, Lilian Besson, 
Lily Xiong, Lisa Sarah Thomas, Lisa Schwetlick, Liutong Zhou, Lizao Li, lizsz, 
ljwolf, LK, lkjcalc, lkubin, Loic Esteve, loopyme, lopusz, lostcoaster, louib, 
Louis Huynh, Louis Tiao, lrjball, Luca Ionescu, Lucas Wiman, lucgiffon, Luciano 
Viola, Lucija Gregov, Lucy Liu, lucyleeow, Ludwig Schwardt, Luis Osa, Luis 
Pedro Coelho, luk-f-a, Lukas Kemkes, Lukas Michelbacher, Luke M Craig, Luke 
Persola, Lutz Roeder, Léo DS, Léonard Binet, Léonie Borne, m-clare, m.fab, 
Mabel, Mabel Villalba, Maciej J Mikulski, Madhura Jayaratne, Mads Jensen, Magda 
Zielinska, MaggieChege, maheshakya, Maheshakya Wijewardena, maikia, mail-liam, 
Mainak Jas, Maithreyi Venkatesh, Maltimore, Mandy Gu, Manimaran, Manish 
Aradwad, Maniteja Nandana, Manoj Kumar, Manraj Singh, Manuel, Manuel 
López-Ibáñez, Manvendra Singh, Maocx, Marc Meketon, Marc Torrellas, Marco De 
Nadai, Marco Gaido, Marco Gorelli, MarcoFalke, MarcoGorelli, Maren Westermann, 
Maria, Mariana Meireles, Marie Douriez, Marielle, marineLM, Mario Krell, Mario 
Michael Krell, Mark Bao, Mark Hannel, Mark Roth, Mark Szepieniec, Mark Veronda, 
MarkIwanchyshyn, Marko Burjek, MarkTab marktab.net, Markus, Markus Frey, Markus 
Müller, MarsGuy, Martin, Martin Billinger, Martin Gubri, Martin Ku, Martin 
Luessi, Martin Madsen, Martin Oywa, Martin Spacek, Martin Thoma, martin-hahn, 
martin-kokos, Martina G. Vilas, MartinBpr, martinosorb, MaryanMorel, Masafumi 
Oyamada, Masashi SHIBATA, Massil, Masstran, Mateusz Górski, Mateusz Susik, 
Matheus, Mathieu Blondel, Mathieu Dubois, mathurinm, matrixorz, Matt Hall, Matt 
Krump, Matt Pico, Matt Terry, Matteo Visconti di Oleggio Castello, Matteo 
Visconti dOC, Matthew Brett, Matthew Roeschke, Matthias Ekman, Matthias Feurer, 
Matthias Gilch, Matthieu Brucher, Matthieu Perrot, Matti Lyra, Maura Pintor, 
Max Copeland, Max Linke, Max Moroz, Maxim Kolganov, Maxwell Aladago, Mayur 
Kulkarni, mbillinger, mbillingr, mc4229, Meghann Agarwal, mehak-sachdeva, Mehdi 
Cherti, Mehul Ahuja, Melanie Goetz, melsyt, Meng Xinfan, Meng, Peng, meyer89, 
mferrari3, mhg, Micah Smith, Michael A. Alcorn, Michael Becker, Michael 
Bommarito, Michael Dezube, Michael Eickenberg, Michael Hanke, Michael Heilman, 
Michael Patterson, Michael Scherer, Michael Shoemaker, Michal Baumgartner, 
Michal Romaniuk, Michał Słapek, Michele Lacchia, Michele Orrù, michiaki ariga, 
Mickaël Schoentgen, midinas, Miguel Cabrera, miguelbarao, mikebenfield, Mikhail 
Korobov, Milen Paskov, Mina Naghshhnejad, Ming Li, Minghui Liu, Minh Le, Minwoo 
Jake Lee, Miroslav Batchkarov, Miroslav Shubernetskiy, Mitar, mlewis1729, MLG, 
mlliou112, mo, Mohamed Ali Jamaoui, Mohamed Maskani, Mohammad Aftab, Mohammad 
Shahebaz, Mohammed AbdelAal, Mohammed Ibraheem, Mojca Bertoncelj, Morikko, 
motmoti, Moussa Taifi, mr.Shu, mrandrewandrade, Mridul Seth, MrMjauh, 
mschaffenroth, mthorrell, Muayyad Alsadi, Muhammad Hassaan Rafique, murad, 
mwestt, Nabarun Pal, nadya-p, Nagarjuna Kumar, NALEPA Emmanuel, Namiya, Nantas 
Nardelli, Naoki Orii, Naoya Iijima, Naoya Kanai, narendramukherjee, Narendran 
Santhanam, Narine Kokhlikyan, NarineK, Natasha Borders, Nate George, Nate 
Guerin, Nathan Suh, Nathaniel Saul, ndingwall, Neeraj Gangwar, Nelle Varoquaux, 
Nelson Liu, nezar-a, ngshya, Nicholas Nadeau, P.Eng., AVS, Nicholas Smith, 
Nicholas Won, Nick Hoh, Nick James, Nick Wilson, NickleDave, Nico de Vos, 
Nicola Montecchio, Nicolas, Nicolas Goix, Nicolas Hug, Nicolas Pinto, Nicolas 
Trésegnie, nicolasservel, Nicolau Werneck, Nicole Vavrova, Nidhin Pattaniyil, 
nielsenmarkus11, Nihar Sheth, Nikita Singh, Nikita Titov, Niklas, Nikolay 
Mayorov, Nikolay Shebanov, Nilesh Kevlani, ningchi, Nirvan Anjirbag, Nishan 
Singh Mann, Nitish Pandey, Nitya Mandyam, nlathia, Noa Tamir, Noel Dawe, 
Norbert Crombach, norvan, notmatthancock, novaya, nuffe, nxorable, nzer0, nzw, 
Okal Billy, okbalefthanded, Okhlopkov Daniil Olegovich, Oleg Stikhin, Oleksandr 
Pavlyk, oliblum90, olicairns, Oliver Rausch, Oliver Urs Lenz, Olivier Grisel, 
Olivier Hervieu, Om Prakash, Omar Saleem, Omer Katz, omtcyfz, Oren Milman, 
Orestis, Osaid Rehman Nasir, Oscar Carlsson, Osman, Owen Flanagan, Pankaj 
Jindal, Panos Louridas, panpiort8, Paolo, Paolo Losi, Paolo Puggioni, Paolo 
Toccaceli, Paresh Mathur, Parminder Singh, parsons-kyle-89, pasbi, Patrick 
Carlson, Patrick Fernandes, Patrick Olden, Patrick Pei, Paul Butler, Paul 
Ganssle, Paul Paczuski, Paul Strickland, Paula, Pauli Virtanen, Paulo Haddad, 
Pavel, Pavel Soriano, pavlos kallis, Pawel Sendyk, Paweł Lorek, Paweł Mandera, 
peay, Pedro Morales, Peng Yu, Perrine Letellier, pestrickland, Pete Bachant, 
Pete Green, Peter, Peter Bull, Peter Cock, Peter Csizsek, Peter Fischer, Peter 
Hausamann, Peter Marko, Peter Prettenhofer, Peter St. John, Peter Wang, Peter 
Welinder, Phil Roth, Philippe Gervais, pianomania, Pierre Delanoue, Pierre 
Glaser, pierreablin, pierretallotte, Pieter Arthur de Jong, Pieter de Jong, 
Pietro Berkes, Pietro Zambelli, pietruh, Pim de Haan, Pinaki Nath Chowdhury, 
Ping-Yao, Chang, Piotr Szymański, plagree, pldtc325, polmauri, poorna-kumar, 
popo, Prabakaran Kumaresshan, practicalswift, Pradeep Reddy Raamana, Pratap 
Vardhan, Prathmesh Savale, Pravar D Mahajan, pravarmahajan, Preston Parry, 
pspachtholz, Pulkit Maloo, Pulkit Mehta, Puneet Mathur, pvnguyen, qdeffense, 
Qimu Zheng, QingYing Chen, Qizhi  Jiang, Quang Nguyễn, Quentin Batista, Quentin 
Hibon, queqichao, R Sanjabi, rachelcjordan, Rachit Kansal, Radostin Stoyanov, 
raduspaimoc, Raf Baluyot, Rafael Carrascosa, Rafael Cunha de Almeida, Rafael 
Possas, Raghav RV, Rahiel Kasim, Rajat Garg, Rajat Khanduja, Rajdeep Dua, 
Rajendra arora, RAKOTOARISON Herilalaina, Ralf Gommers, Ramana Subramanyam, 
Ramana.S, Rameshwar Bhaskaran, Ramil Nugmanov, Rammig, Randall Mason, Randy 
Olson, RankyLau, Raphaël Bournhonesque, rasbt, rashchedrin, Rasul Kerimov, Raul 
Garreta, Ray, Ray Bell, Raúl García Calvo, Rebecca Bilbro, Rebekah Kim, 
Reiichiro Nakano, Remi Rampin, Reshama Shaikh, Reza Gharibi, Riccardo Folloni, 
Richard Payne, Richard T. Guy, Richard W, Rick Mackenbach, rickiepark, 
Rishikesh, Ritchie Ng, rlms, Rob, Rob Alexander, Rob Hall, Rob Speer, Rob 
Zinkov, Robert, Robert Bradshaw, Robert Juergens, Robert Layton, Robert Lutz, 
Robert Marchman, Robert McGibbon, Robin Schucker, Rohan Jain, Rohan Lekhwani, 
Rohan Ramanath, Rohan Singh, Rohan Varma, Rohit Kapoor, Rohit Sivaprasad, Rok 
Mihevc, Roland Szabo, Rolando Espinoza La fuente, Romain Brault, Romain 
Tavenard, Roman Feldbauer, Roman Kosobrodov, Roman Sinayev, Roman Yurchak, 
Romuald M, Ron Weiss, Ronald Phlypo, Ronan Amicel, Ronan Lamy, Roopam Sharma, 
root, Rory Hartong-Redden, Roy Hyunjin Han, rragundez, RuchitaGarde, Ruifeng 
Zheng, Rupesh Kumar Srivastava, Rushabh Vasani, Russell Smith, Ruth Waithera, 
Ryan, Ryan Wang, Ryan Yu, Rémy Léone, Rüdiger Busche, Sachin Agarwal, Sachin 
Kelkar, Sackey, Sagnik Bhattacharya, saihttam, Sailesh Choyal, Saiwing Yeung, 
Saket Choudhary, Salvatore Masecchia, Sam Dixon, Sam Nicholls, Sam 
Radhakrishnan, Sam Shleifer, Sam Steingold, Sam Waterbury, Sam Zhang, Sambhav 
Kothari, Samesh Lakhotia, Samson Tan, Samuel Bell, Samuel Charron, Samuel Duan, 
Samuel O. Ronsin, Samuel St-Jean, Samuel Taylor, samuela, Samuël Weber, 
SandroCasagrande, SanthoshBala18, santi, Santiago M. Mola, Saqib Nizam Shamsi, 
Sarah Brown, Sarat Addepalli, Sarra Habchi, Sartaj Singh, Sasank Chilamkurthy, 
SATISH J, Satrajit Ghosh, Saurabh Gupta, Saurabh Jha, saurabh.bansod, scibol, 
scls19fr, Scott Andrews, Scott Cole, Scott Dickerson, Scott Gigante, Scott 
Lowe, Scott Sievert, Scott White, sdenton4, seales, Seamus Abshere, 
seanpwilliams, Sebastian Berg, Sebastian Flennerhag, Sebastian Kießling, 
Sebastian Pölsterl, Sebastian Raschka, Sebastian Saeger, Sebastien Dubois, 
Sebastin Santy, Sebastián Vanrell, Sergei Lebedev, Sergey Feldman, Sergey 
Karayev, Sergey Melderis, sergeyf, Sergio, Sergio Medina, Sergio Pascual, 
SergioDSR, Sergul Aydore, sethdandridge, SeWook Oh, shagun Sodhani, Shahebaz, 
Shalil Awaley, Shane Keller, Shangwu Yao, shanmuga cv, Sharad Vijalapuram, 
Sharan Yalburgi, Shashank Shekhar, Shaun Jackman, shawpan, she-dares, 
shengxiduan, shenhanc78, Shiki-H, Shiqiao Du, Shivam Kotwalia, Shivam Rastogi, 
shivamgargsya, Shivan Sornarajah, Shiyu Duan, Shota, Shreya V, Shu Haoran, 
SHUBH CHATTERJEE, Shubham Bhardwaj, Shubham Mehta, shuckle16, Shuzhe Xiao, Sid 
Kapur, Siddharth Gupta, siftikha, Simon Frid, simonamaggio, SimonCW, SimonPL, 
Sinclert Pérez, sinhrks, Skipper Seabold, sklearn-ci, smarie, SmedbergM, 
smujjiga, Snowhite, snuderl, SolutusImmensus, Somya Anand, Sonny Hu, Soumirai, 
Sourav Singh, srajan paliwal, Sri Krishna, Sriharsha Hatwar, Srivatsan, 
srvanrell, sseg, stareh, staubda, Stefan Otte, Stefan van der Walt, Stefan 
Walk, stefan-matcovici, Stefano Lattarini, steinfurt, Stephan Hoyer, Stephan 
Tulkens, Stephen Blystone, Stephen Cowley, Stephen Hoover, Stephen Marsh, 
Stephen McDowell, Stephen Tierney, Steve Koch, Steve Tjoa, Steven Brown, Steven 
C. Howell, Steven De Gryze, Steven Maude, Steven Seguin, Stijn Tonk, Sturla 
Molden, Stéphane Couvreur, Subhodeep Moitra, Sunmi Yoon, surgan12, swu, syhw, 
Sylvain Zimmer, SylvainLan, syonekura, Szabo Roland, Sébastien Lerique, Sönke 
Behrends, t-aft, Tadej Janež, Taehoon Lee, Tahar, Takanori Hayashi, 
TakingItCasual, talgatomarov, tamirlan1, Taranjeet, tarcusx, Tashay Green, 
Taylor G Smith, tejesh95, terrycojones, th0rwas, themrmax, Theodore Vasiloudis, 
Theofilos Papapanagiotou, theoptips, theotheo, theriley106, thibsej, Thierno 
Ibrahima DIOP, Thierry, Thierry Guillemot, Thomas, Thomas A Caswell, Thomas 
Delteil, Thomas Edwards, Thomas Fan, Thomas Hallock, Thomas Heavey, Thomas J 
Fan, Thomas J. Fan, Thomas Jarosch, Thomas Li, Thomas Moreau, Thomas Schmitt, 
Thomas Unterthiner, Thouis (Ray) Jones, Tiago Freitas Pereira, Tiago Nunes, 
Tian Wang, Tilen Kusterle, Tim Bicker, Tim Head, Tim Nonner, Tim 
Sheerman-Chase, Tim Staley, Tim Vink, Timothy Hopper, Timsaur, Tiphaine Viard, 
Tirth Patel, Titus Christian, Tiziano Zito, tKammy, toastedcornflakes, Tobias 
Madsen, tobycheese, tokoroten, Tola A, Tom Augspurger, Tom DLT, Tom Dupré la 
Tour, Tomas Kazmar, TomDLT, Tommy, Tommy Boucher, Tommy Löfstedt, topisan, 
Toshihiro Kamishima, tracer0tong, Trent Hauck, Trevor Stephens, trevorstephens, 
trimeta, Trishnendu Ghorai, ttang131, tttthomasssss, Tue Vo, Tulio Casagrande, 
twosigmajab, Tyler Folkman, Tyler Lanigan, Tzu-Ming Kuo, uber, Udi Weinsberg, 
ugurcaliskan, ugurthemaster, Umar Farouk Umar, unknown, Urvang Patel, Utkarsh 
Upadhyay, Vachan D A, Vadim Markovtsev, Valentin Haenel, Valentin Stolbunov, 
Vandana Iyer, Varun, Varun Agrawal, Varun Jewalikar, Varun Shenoy, Vathsala 
Achar, veerlosar, Venkatachalam N, Viacheslav V Kovalevskyi, vibrantabhi19, 
Victor Luzgin, Victor Poughon, Vighnesh Birodkar, Vijay Ramesh, Vikas Pandey, 
Vikram, Vilhelm von Ehrenheim, Villu Ruusmann, Vinayak Mehta, Vincent, Vincent 
Dubourg, Vincent Jeanselme, Vincent Lostanlen, Vincent Michel, Vincent Pham, 
Vincent Schut, Vinit, Vinod Kumar L, Viraj Mavani, Viraj Navkal, Virgile 
Fritsch, Vishaal Kapoor, Vivek Kumar, Vjacheslav Murashkin, Vlad Niculae, 
Vladimir Korolev, Vlasios Vasileiou, vnherdeiro, vqean3, Vrishank Bhardwaj, 
vstolbunov, vufg, wadawson, waelbenamara, wallygauze, walter, wangz10, Warut 
Vijitbenjaronk, waterponey, wconnell, wderose, wdevazelhes, Wei Li, Wei Xue, 
Wenbo Zhao, Wendy Hu, Wenhao Zhang, Wenhua Yang, Wenjian Huang, wenliwyan, Wes 
Barnett, Will, Will Lamond, Will Myers, Will Rosenfeld, Will Welch, 
willdarnell, willduan, William de Vazelhes, Windber, wolframalpha, wornbb, Wu 
Jiang, wyseguy7, x-martian, X006, x0l, xavier dupré, xcjason, xhan, Xin Xiong, 
Xinfan Meng, Xing Han Lu, xinyuliu12, xor, xsat, xun-tang, xyguo, Yan Yi, Yang 
Zhang, yangarbiter, yanlend, Yann Malet, Yann N. Dauphin, Yannick Schwartz, 
Yaroslav Halchenko, yelite, Yen, YenChenLin, Yichuan Liu, Yiming (Paul) Li, 
Yinglr, ymazari, Yoav Ram, yokasre, Yoni Ben-Meshulam, Yoshiki Vázquez Baeza, 
Your Name, Yu-Chin, Yu-Hang "Maxin" Tang, Yucheng Low, Yufeng, Yuichi Fujikawa, 
Yulia Zamriy, Yung Siang Liau, Yury V. Zaytsev, Yury Zhauniarovich, Zac 
Stewart, Zach Griffith, Zach Miller, Zayd Hammoudeh, zhai_pro, Zheng RuiFeng, 
Zhenqing Hu, Zhiqing Xiao, Zhuyi Xue, Zichen Wang, Zijie (ZJ) Poh, Zikes, Jan, 
zivori, ZJ Poh, zxcvbnius, Zé Vinícius, Óscar Nájera, 赵丰 (Zhao Feng)
