.. currentmodule:: sklearn

.. _changes_0_8:

Version 0.8
===========

**May 11, 2011**

scikit-learn 0.8 was released on May 2011, one month after the first
"international" `scikit-learn coding sprint
<https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/wiki/Upcoming-events>`_ and is
marked by the inclusion of important modules: :ref:`hierarchical_clustering`,
:ref:`cross_decomposition`, :ref:`NMF`, initial support for Python 3 and by important
enhancements and bug fixes.


Changelog
---------

Several new modules where introduced during this release:

  - New :ref:`hierarchical_clustering` module by Vincent Michel,
    `Bertrand Thirion`_, `Alexandre Gramfort`_ and `Gael Varoquaux`_.

  - :ref:`kernel_pca` implementation by `Mathieu Blondel`_

  - :ref:`labeled_faces_in_the_wild` by `Olivier Grisel`_.

  - New :ref:`cross_decomposition` module by `Edouard Duchesnay`_.

  - :ref:`NMF` module `Vlad Niculae`_

  - Implementation of the :ref:`oracle_approximating_shrinkage` algorithm by
    :user:`Virgile Fritsch <VirgileFritsch>` in the :ref:`covariance` module.


Some other modules benefited from significant improvements or cleanups.


  - Initial support for Python 3: builds and imports cleanly,
    some modules are usable while others have failing tests by `Fabian Pedregosa`_.

  - :class:`decomposition.PCA` is now usable from the Pipeline object by `Olivier Grisel`_.

  - Guide :ref:`performance-howto` by `Olivier Grisel`_.

  - Fixes for memory leaks in libsvm bindings, 64-bit safer BallTree by Lars Buitinck.

  - bug and style fixing in :ref:`k_means` algorithm by Jan Schlüter.

  - Add attribute converged to Gaussian Mixture Models by Vincent Schut.

  - Implemented ``transform``, ``predict_log_proba`` in
    :class:`discriminant_analysis.LinearDiscriminantAnalysis` By `Mathieu Blondel`_.

  - Refactoring in the :ref:`svm` module and bug fixes by `Fabian Pedregosa`_,
    `Gael Varoquaux`_ and Amit Aides.

  - Refactored SGD module (removed code duplication, better variable naming),
    added interface for sample weight by `Peter Prettenhofer`_.

  - Wrapped BallTree with Cython by Thouis (Ray) Jones.

  - Added function :func:`svm.l1_min_c` by Paolo Losi.

  - Typos, doc style, etc. by `Yaroslav Halchenko`_, `Gael Varoquaux`_,
    `Olivier Grisel`_, Yann Malet, `Nicolas Pinto`_, Lars Buitinck and
    `Fabian Pedregosa`_.


People
-------

People that made this release possible preceded by number of commits:


   - 159  `Olivier Grisel`_
   - 96  `Gael Varoquaux`_
   - 96  `Vlad Niculae`_
   - 94  `Fabian Pedregosa`_
   - 36  `Alexandre Gramfort`_
   - 32  Paolo Losi
   - 31  `Edouard Duchesnay`_
   - 30  `Mathieu Blondel`_
   - 25  `Peter Prettenhofer`_
   - 22  `Nicolas Pinto`_
   - 11  :user:`Virgile Fritsch <VirgileFritsch>`
   -  7  Lars Buitinck
   -  6  Vincent Michel
   -  5  `Bertrand Thirion`_
   -  4  Thouis (Ray) Jones
   -  4  Vincent Schut
   -  3  Jan Schlüter
   -  2  Julien Miotte
   -  2  `Matthieu Perrot`_
   -  2  Yann Malet
   -  2  `Yaroslav Halchenko`_
   -  1  Amit Aides
   -  1  `Andreas Müller`_
   -  1  Feth Arezki
   -  1  Meng Xinfan

