.. include:: _contributors.rst

.. currentmodule:: sklearn

.. _release_notes_1_7:

===========
Version 1.7
===========

For a short description of the main highlights of the release, please refer to
:ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_release_highlights_plot_release_highlights_1_7_0.py`.

.. include:: changelog_legend.inc

.. towncrier release notes start

.. _changes_1_7_1:

Version 1.7.1
=============

**July 2025**

:mod:`sklearn.base`
-------------------

- |Fix| Fix regression in HTML representation when detecting the non-default parameters
  that where of array-like types.
  By :user:`Dea María Léon <deamarialeon>` :pr:`31528`

:mod:`sklearn.compose`
----------------------

- |Fix| :class:`compose.ColumnTransformer` now correctly preserves non-default index
  when mixing pandas Series and Dataframes.
  By :user:`Nicolas Bolle <nicolas-bolle>`. :pr:`31079`

:mod:`sklearn.datasets`
-----------------------

- |Fix| Fixed a regression preventing to extract the downloaded dataset in
  :func:`datasets.fetch_20newsgroups`, :func:`datasets.fetch_20newsgroups_vectorized`,
  :func:`datasets.fetch_lfw_people` and :func:`datasets.fetch_lfw_pairs`. This
  only affects Python versions `>=3.10.0,<=3.10.11` and `>=3.11.0,<=3.11.3`.
  By :user:`Jérémie du Boisberranger <jeremiedbb>`. :pr:`31685`

:mod:`sklearn.inspection`
-------------------------

- |Fix| Fix multiple issues in the multiclass setting of :class:`inspection.DecisionBoundaryDisplay`:

  - `contour` plotting now correctly shows the decision boundary.
  - `cmap` and `colors` are now properly ignored in favor of `multiclass_colors`.
  - Linear segmented colormaps are now fully supported.

  By :user:`Yunjie Lin <jshn9515>` :pr:`31553`

:mod:`sklearn.naive_bayes`
--------------------------

- |Fix| :class:`naive_bayes.CategoricalNB` now correctly declares that it accepts
  categorical features in the tags returned by its `__sklearn_tags__` method.
  By :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>` :pr:`31556`

:mod:`sklearn.utils`
--------------------

- |Fix| Fixed a spurious warning (about the number of unique classes being
  greater than 50% of the number of samples) that could occur when
  passing `classes` :func:`utils.multiclass.type_of_target`.
  By :user:`Sascha D. Krauss <saskra>`. :pr:`31584`

.. _changes_1_7_0:

Version 1.7.0
=============

**June 2025**

Changed models
--------------

- |Fix| Change the `ConvergenceWarning` message of estimators that rely on the
  `"lbfgs"` optimizer internally to be more informative and to avoid
  suggesting to increase the maximum number of iterations when it is not
  user-settable or when the convergence problem happens before reaching it.
  By :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>`. :pr:`31316`

Changes impacting many modules
------------------------------

- Sparse update: As part of the SciPy change from spmatrix to sparray, all
  internal use of sparse now supports both sparray and spmatrix.
  All manipulations of sparse objects should work for either spmatrix or sparray.
  This is pass 1 of a migration toward sparray (see
  `SciPy migration to sparray <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/sparse.migration_to_sparray.html>`_
  By :user:`Dan Schult <dschult>` :pr:`30858`

Support for Array API
---------------------

Additional estimators and functions have been updated to include support for all
`Array API <https://data-apis.org/array-api/latest/>`_ compliant inputs.

See :ref:`array_api` for more details.

- |Feature| :func:`sklearn.utils.check_consistent_length` now supports Array API compatible
  inputs.
  By :user:`Stefanie Senger <StefanieSenger>` :pr:`29519`

- |Feature| :func:`sklearn.metrics.explained_variance_score` and
  :func:`sklearn.metrics.mean_pinball_loss` now support Array API compatible inputs.
  By :user:`Virgil Chan <virchan>` :pr:`29978`

- |Feature| :func:`sklearn.metrics.fbeta_score`,
  :func:`sklearn.metrics.precision_score` and
  :func:`sklearn.metrics.recall_score` now support Array API compatible inputs.
  By :user:`Omar Salman <OmarManzoor>` :pr:`30395`

- |Feature| :func:`sklearn.utils.extmath.randomized_svd` now support Array API compatible inputs.
  By :user:`Connor Lane <clane9>` and :user:`Jérémie du Boisberranger <jeremiedbb>`. :pr:`30819`

- |Feature| :func:`sklearn.metrics.hamming_loss` now support Array API compatible inputs.
  By :user:`Thomas Li <lithomas1>` :pr:`30838`

- |Feature| :class:`preprocessing.Binarizer` now supports Array API compatible inputs.
  By :user:`Yaroslav Korobko <Tialo>`, :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>`, and :user:`Thomas Li <lithomas1>`. :pr:`31190`

- |Feature| :func:`sklearn.metrics.jaccard_score` now supports Array API compatible inputs.
  By :user:`Omar Salman <OmarManzoor>` :pr:`31204`

- array-api-compat and array-api-extra are now vendored within the
  scikit-learn source. Users of the experimental array API standard
  support no longer need to install array-api-compat in their environment.
  by :user:`Lucas Colley <lucascolley>` :pr:`30340`

Metadata routing
----------------

Refer to the :ref:`Metadata Routing User Guide <metadata_routing>` for
more details.

- |Feature| :class:`ensemble.BaggingClassifier` and :class:`ensemble.BaggingRegressor` now support
  metadata routing through their `predict`, `predict_proba`, `predict_log_proba` and
  `decision_function` methods and pass `**params` to the underlying estimators.
  By :user:`Stefanie Senger <StefanieSenger>`. :pr:`30833`

:mod:`sklearn.base`
-------------------

- |Enhancement| :class:`base.BaseEstimator` now has a parameter table added to the
  estimators HTML representation that can be visualized with jupyter.
  By :user:`Guillaume Lemaitre <glemaitre>` and
  :user:`Dea María Léon <DeaMariaLeon>` :pr:`30763`

:mod:`sklearn.calibration`
--------------------------

- |Fix| :class:`~calibration.CalibratedClassifierCV` now raises `FutureWarning`
  instead of `UserWarning` when passing `cv="prefit`". By
  :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>`
- :class:`~calibration.CalibratedClassifierCV` with `method="sigmoid"` no
  longer crashes when passing `float64`-dtyped `sample_weight` along with a
  base estimator that outputs `float32`-dtyped predictions. By :user:`Olivier
  Grisel <ogrisel>` :pr:`30873`

:mod:`sklearn.compose`
----------------------

- |API| The `force_int_remainder_cols` parameter of :class:`compose.ColumnTransformer` and
  :func:`compose.make_column_transformer` is deprecated and will be removed in 1.9.
  It has no effect.
  By :user:`Jérémie du Boisberranger <jeremiedbb>` :pr:`31167`

:mod:`sklearn.covariance`
-------------------------

- |Fix| Support for ``n_samples == n_features`` in `sklearn.covariance.MinCovDet` has
  been restored.  By :user:`Antony Lee <anntzer>`. :pr:`30483`

:mod:`sklearn.datasets`
-----------------------

- |Enhancement| New parameter ``return_X_y`` added to :func:`datasets.make_classification`. The
  default value of the parameter does not change how the function behaves.
  By :user:`Success Moses <SuccessMoses>` and :user:`Adam Cooper <arc12>` :pr:`30196`

:mod:`sklearn.decomposition`
----------------------------

- |Feature| :class:`~sklearn.decomposition.DictionaryLearning`,
  :class:`~sklearn.decomposition.SparseCoder`  and
  :class:`~sklearn.decomposition.MiniBatchDictionaryLearning` now have a
  ``inverse_transform`` method. By :user:`Rémi Flamary <rflamary>` :pr:`30443`

:mod:`sklearn.ensemble`
-----------------------

- |Feature| :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` and
  :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingRegressor` allow for more control over the
  validation set used for early stopping. You can now pass data to be used for
  validation directly to `fit` via the arguments `X_val`, `y_val` and
  `sample_weight_val`.
  By :user:`Christian Lorentzen <lorentzenchr>`. :pr:`27124`

- |Fix| :class:`ensemble.VotingClassifier` and :class:`ensemble.VotingRegressor`
  validate `estimators` to make sure it is a list of tuples. By `Thomas Fan`_. :pr:`30649`

:mod:`sklearn.feature_selection`
--------------------------------

- |Enhancement| :class:`feature_selection.RFECV` now gives access to the ranking and support in each
  iteration and cv step of feature selection.
  By :user:`Marie S. <MarieSacksick>` :pr:`30179`

- |Fix| :class:`feature_selection.SelectFromModel` now correctly works when the estimator
  is an instance of :class:`linear_model.ElasticNetCV` with its `l1_ratio` parameter
  being an array-like.
  By :user:`Vasco Pereira <vasco-s-pereira>`. :pr:`31107`

:mod:`sklearn.gaussian_process`
-------------------------------

- |Enhancement| :class:`gaussian_process.GaussianProcessClassifier` now includes a `latent_mean_and_variance` method that exposes the mean and the variance of the latent function, :math:`f`, used in the Laplace approximation. By :user:`Miguel González Duque <miguelgondu>` :pr:`22227`

:mod:`sklearn.inspection`
-------------------------

- |Enhancement| Add `custom_values` parameter in :func:`inspection.partial_dependence`. It enables
  users to pass their own grid of values at which the partial dependence should be
  calculated.
  By :user:`Freddy A. Boulton <freddyaboulton>` and :user:`Stephen Pardy
  <stephenpardy>` :pr:`26202`

- |Enhancement| :class:`inspection.DecisionBoundaryDisplay` now supports
  plotting all classes for multi-class problems when `response_method` is
  'decision_function', 'predict_proba' or 'auto'.
  By :user:`Lucy Liu <lucyleeow>` :pr:`29797`

- |Fix| :func:`inspection.partial_dependence` now raises an informative error when passing
  an empty list as the `categorical_features` parameter. `None` should be used instead
  to indicate that no categorical features are present.
  By :user:`Pedro Lopes <pedroL0pes>`. :pr:`31146`

- |API| :func:`inspection.partial_dependence` does no longer accept integer dtype for
  numerical feature columns. Explicit conversion to floating point values is
  now required before calling this tool (and preferably even before fitting the
  model to inspect).
  By :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>` :pr:`30409`

:mod:`sklearn.linear_model`
---------------------------

- |Enhancement| :class:`linear_model.SGDClassifier` and :class:`linear_model.SGDRegressor` now accept
  `l1_ratio=None` when `penalty` is not `"elasticnet"`.
  By :user:`Marc Bresson <MarcBresson>`. :pr:`30730`

- |Enhancement| Fitting :class:`linear_model.Lasso` and :class:`linear_model.ElasticNet` with
  `fit_intercept=True` is faster for sparse input `X` because an unnecessary
  re-computation of the sum of residuals is avoided.
  By :user:`Christian Lorentzen <lorentzenchr>` :pr:`31387`

- |Fix| :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegression` and
  :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV` now properly pass sample weights to
  :func:`utils.class_weight.compute_class_weight` when fit with
  `class_weight="balanced"`.
  By :user:`Shruti Nath <snath-xoc>` and :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>` :pr:`30057`

- |Fix| Added a new parameter `tol` to
  :class:`linear_model.LinearRegression` that determines the precision of the
  solution `coef_` when fitting on sparse data.
  By :user:`Success Moses <SuccessMoses>` :pr:`30521`

- |Fix| The update and initialization of the hyperparameters now properly handle
  sample weights in :class:`linear_model.BayesianRidge`.
  By :user:`Antoine Baker <antoinebaker>`. :pr:`30644`

- |Fix| :class:`linear_model.BayesianRidge` now uses the full SVD to correctly estimate
  the posterior covariance matrix `sigma_` when `n_samples < n_features`.
  By :user:`Antoine Baker <antoinebaker>` :pr:`31094`

- |API| The parameter `n_alphas` has been deprecated in the following classes:
  :class:`linear_model.ElasticNetCV` and :class:`linear_model.LassoCV`
  and :class:`linear_model.MultiTaskElasticNetCV`
  and :class:`linear_model.MultiTaskLassoCV`, and will be removed in 1.9. The parameter
  `alphas` now supports both integers and array-likes, removing the need for `n_alphas`.
  From now on, only `alphas` should be set to either indicate the number of alphas to
  automatically generate (int) or to provide a list of alphas (array-like) to test along
  the regularization path.
  By :user:`Siddharth Bansal <KANNAHWORLD >`. :pr:`30616`

- |API| Using the `"liblinear"` solver for multiclass classification with a one-versus-rest
  scheme in :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegression` and
  :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV` is deprecated and will raise an error in
  version 1.8. Either use a solver which supports the multinomial loss or wrap the
  estimator in a :class:`sklearn.multiclass.OneVsRestClassifier` to keep applying a
  one-versus-rest scheme.
  By :user:`Jérémie du Boisberranger <jeremiedbb>`. :pr:`31241`

:mod:`sklearn.manifold`
-----------------------

- |Enhancement| :class:`manifold.MDS` will switch to use `n_init=1` by default,
  starting from version 1.9.
  By :user:`Dmitry Kobak <dkobak>` :pr:`31117`

- |Fix| :class:`manifold.MDS` now correctly handles non-metric MDS. Furthermore,
  the returned stress value now corresponds to the returned embedding and
  normalized stress is now allowed for metric MDS.
  By :user:`Dmitry Kobak <dkobak>` :pr:`30514`

- |Fix| :class:`manifold.MDS` now uses `eps=1e-6` by default and the convergence
  criterion was adjusted to make sense for both metric and non-metric MDS
  and to follow the reference R implementation. The formula for normalized
  stress was adjusted to follow the original definition by Kruskal.
  By :user:`Dmitry Kobak <dkobak>` :pr:`31117`

:mod:`sklearn.metrics`
----------------------

- |Feature| :func:`metrics.brier_score_loss` implements the Brier score for multiclass
  classification problems and adds a `scale_by_half` argument. This metric is
  notably useful to assess both sharpness and calibration of probabilistic
  classifiers. See the docstrings for more details. By
  :user:`Varun Aggarwal <aggvarun01>`, :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>` and
  :user:`Antoine Baker <antoinebaker>`. :pr:`22046`

- |Feature| Add class method `from_cv_results` to :class:`metrics.RocCurveDisplay`, which allows
  easy plotting of multiple ROC curves from :func:`model_selection.cross_validate`
  results.
  By :user:`Lucy Liu <lucyleeow>` :pr:`30399`

- |Enhancement| :func:`metrics.det_curve`, :class:`metrics.DetCurveDisplay.from_estimator`,
  and :class:`metrics.DetCurveDisplay.from_estimator` now accept a
  `drop_intermediate` option to drop thresholds where true positives (tp) do not
  change from the previous or subsequent thresholds. All points with the same tp
  value have the same `fnr` and thus same y coordinate in a DET curve.
  By :user:`Arturo Amor <ArturoAmorQ>` :pr:`29151`

- |Enhancement| :func:`~metrics.class_likelihood_ratios` now has a `replace_undefined_by` param.
  When there is a division by zero, the metric is undefined and the set values are
  returned for `LR+` and `LR-`.
  By :user:`Stefanie Senger <StefanieSenger>` :pr:`29288`

- |Fix| :func:`metrics.log_loss` now raises a `ValueError` if values of `y_true`
  are missing in `labels`. By :user:`Varun Aggarwal <aggvarun01>`,
  :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>` and :user:`Antoine Baker <antoinebaker>`. :pr:`22046`

- |Fix| :func:`metrics.det_curve` and :class:`metrics.DetCurveDisplay` now return an
  extra threshold at infinity where the classifier always predicts the negative
  class i.e. tps = fps = 0.
  By :user:`Arturo Amor <ArturoAmorQ>` :pr:`29151`

- |Fix| :func:`~metrics.class_likelihood_ratios` now raises `UndefinedMetricWarning` instead
  of `UserWarning` when a division by zero occurs.
  By :user:`Stefanie Senger <StefanieSenger>` :pr:`29288`

- |Fix| :class:`metrics.RocCurveDisplay` will no longer set a legend when
  `label` is `None` in both the `line_kwargs` and the `chance_level_kw`.
  By :user:`Arturo Amor <ArturoAmorQ>` :pr:`29727`

- |Fix| Additional `sample_weight` checking has been added to
  :func:`metrics.mean_absolute_error`,
  :func:`metrics.mean_pinball_loss`,
  :func:`metrics.mean_absolute_percentage_error`,
  :func:`metrics.mean_squared_error`,
  :func:`metrics.root_mean_squared_error`,
  :func:`metrics.mean_squared_log_error`,
  :func:`metrics.root_mean_squared_log_error`,
  :func:`metrics.explained_variance_score`,
  :func:`metrics.r2_score`,
  :func:`metrics.mean_tweedie_deviance`,
  :func:`metrics.mean_poisson_deviance`,
  :func:`metrics.mean_gamma_deviance` and
  :func:`metrics.d2_tweedie_score`.
  `sample_weight` can only be 1D, consistent to `y_true` and `y_pred` in length
  or a scalar.
  By :user:`Lucy Liu <lucyleeow>`. :pr:`30886`

- |Fix| :func:`~metrics.d2_log_loss_score` now properly handles the case when `labels` is
  passed and not all of the labels are present in `y_true`.
  By :user:`Vassilis Margonis <vmargonis>` :pr:`30903`

- |Fix| Fix :func:`metrics.adjusted_mutual_info_score` numerical issue when number of
  classes and samples is low.
  By :user:`Hleb Levitski <glevv>` :pr:`31065`

- |API| The `sparse` parameter of :func:`metrics.fowlkes_mallows_score` is deprecated and
  will be removed in 1.9. It has no effect.
  By :user:`Luc Rocher <cynddl>`. :pr:`28981`

- |API| The `raise_warning` parameter of :func:`metrics.class_likelihood_ratios` is deprecated
  and will be removed in 1.9. An `UndefinedMetricWarning` will always be raised in case
  of a division by zero.
  By :user:`Stefanie Senger <StefanieSenger>`. :pr:`29288`

- |API| In :meth:`sklearn.metrics.RocCurveDisplay.from_predictions`,
  the argument `y_pred` has been renamed to `y_score` to better reflect its purpose.
  `y_pred` will be removed in 1.9.
  By :user:`Bagus Tris Atmaja <bagustris>` in :pr:`29865`

:mod:`sklearn.mixture`
----------------------

- |Feature| Added an attribute `lower_bounds_` in the :class:`mixture.BaseMixture`
  class to save the list of lower bounds for each iteration thereby providing
  insights into the convergence behavior of mixture models like
  :class:`mixture.GaussianMixture`.
  By :user:`Manideep Yenugula <myenugula>` :pr:`28559`

- |Efficiency| Simplified redundant computation when estimating covariances in
  :class:`~mixture.GaussianMixture` with a `covariance_type="spherical"` or
  `covariance_type="diag"`.
  By :user:`Leonce Mekinda <mekleo>` and :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>` :pr:`30414`

- |Efficiency| :class:`~mixture.GaussianMixture` now consistently operates at `float32`
  precision when fitted with `float32` data to improve training speed and
  memory efficiency. Previously, part of the computation would be implicitly
  cast to `float64`. By :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>` and :user:`Omar Salman
  <OmarManzoor>`. :pr:`30415`

:mod:`sklearn.model_selection`
------------------------------

- |Fix| Hyper-parameter optimizers such as :class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV`
  now forward `sample_weight` to the scorer even when metadata routing is not enabled.
  By :user:`Antoine Baker <antoinebaker>` :pr:`30743`

:mod:`sklearn.multiclass`
-------------------------

- |Fix| The `predict_proba` method of :class:`sklearn.multiclass.OneVsRestClassifier` now
  returns zero for all classes when all inner estimators never predict their positive
  class.
  By :user:`Luis M. B. Varona <Luis-Varona>`, :user:`Marc Bresson <MarcBresson>`, and
  :user:`Jérémie du Boisberranger <jeremiedbb>`. :pr:`31228`

:mod:`sklearn.multioutput`
--------------------------

- |Enhancement| The parameter `base_estimator` has been deprecated in favour of `estimator` for
  :class:`multioutput.RegressorChain` and :class:`multioutput.ClassifierChain`.
  By :user:`Success Moses <SuccessMoses>` and :user:`dikraMasrour <dikra_masrour>` :pr:`30152`

:mod:`sklearn.neural_network`
-----------------------------

- |Feature| Added support for `sample_weight` in :class:`neural_network.MLPClassifier` and
  :class:`neural_network.MLPRegressor`.
  By :user:`Zach Shu <zshu115x>` and :user:`Christian Lorentzen <lorentzenchr>` :pr:`30155`

- |Feature| Added parameter for `loss` in :class:`neural_network.MLPRegressor` with options
  `"squared_error"` (default) and `"poisson"` (new).
  By :user:`Christian Lorentzen <lorentzenchr>` :pr:`30712`

- |Fix| :class:`neural_network.MLPRegressor` now raises an informative error when
  `early_stopping` is set and the computed validation set is too small.
  By :user:`David Shumway <davidshumway>`. :pr:`24788`

:mod:`sklearn.pipeline`
-----------------------

- |Enhancement| Expose the ``verbose_feature_names_out`` argument in the
  :func:`pipeline.make_union` function, allowing users to control
  feature name uniqueness in the :class:`pipeline.FeatureUnion`.
  By :user:`Abhijeetsingh Meena <Ethan0456>` :pr:`30406`

:mod:`sklearn.preprocessing`
----------------------------

- |Enhancement| :class:`preprocessing.KBinsDiscretizer` with `strategy="uniform"` now
  accepts `sample_weight`. Additionally with `strategy="quantile"` the
  `quantile_method` can now be specified (in the future
  `quantile_method="averaged_inverted_cdf"` will become the default).
  By :user:`Shruti Nath <snath-xoc>` and :user:`Olivier Grisel
  <ogrisel>` :pr:`29907`

- |Fix| :class:`preprocessing.KBinsDiscretizer` now uses weighted resampling when
  sample weights are given and subsampling is used. This may change results
  even when not using sample weights, although in absolute and not in terms
  of statistical properties.
  By :user:`Shruti Nath <snath-xoc>` and :user:`Jérémie du Boisberranger
  <jeremiedbb>` :pr:`29907`

- |Fix| Now using ``scipy.stats.yeojohnson`` instead of our own implementation of the Yeo-Johnson transform.
  Fixed numerical stability (mostly overflows) of the Yeo-Johnson transform with
  `PowerTransformer(method="yeo-johnson")` when scipy version is `>= 1.12`.
  Initial PR by :user:`Xuefeng Xu <xuefeng-xu>` completed by :user:`Mohamed Yaich <yaichm>`,
  :user:`Oussama Er-rabie <eroussama>`, :user:`Mohammed Yaslam Dlimi <Dlimim>`,
  :user:`Hamza Zaroual <HamzaLuffy>`, :user:`Amine Hannoun <AmineHannoun>` and :user:`Sylvain Marié <smarie>`. :pr:`31227`

:mod:`sklearn.svm`
------------------

- |Fix| :class:`svm.LinearSVC` now properly passes sample weights to
  :func:`utils.class_weight.compute_class_weight` when fit with
  `class_weight="balanced"`.
  By :user:`Shruti Nath <snath-xoc>` :pr:`30057`

:mod:`sklearn.utils`
--------------------

- |Enhancement| :func:`utils.multiclass.type_of_target` raises a warning when the number
  of unique classes is greater than 50% of the number of samples. This warning is raised
  only if `y` has more than 20 samples.
  By :user:`Rahil Parikh <rprkh>`. :pr:`26335`

- |Enhancement| :func: `resample` now handles sample weights which allows
  weighted resampling.
  By :user:`Shruti Nath <snath-xoc>` and :user:`Olivier Grisel
  <ogrisel>` :pr:`29907`

- |Enhancement| :func:`utils.class_weight.compute_class_weight` now properly accounts for
  sample weights when using strategy "balanced" to calculate class weights.
  By :user:`Shruti Nath <snath-xoc>` :pr:`30057`

- |Enhancement| Warning filters from the main process are propagated to joblib workers.
  By `Thomas Fan`_ :pr:`30380`

- |Enhancement| The private helper function :func:`utils._safe_indexing` now officially supports
  pyarrow data. For instance, passing a pyarrow `Table` as `X` in a
  :class:`compose.ColumnTransformer` is now possible.
  By :user:`Christian Lorentzen <lorentzenchr>` :pr:`31040`

- |Fix| In :mod:`utils.estimator_checks` we now enforce for binary classifiers a
  binary `y` by taking the minimum as the negative class instead of the first
  element, which makes it robust to `y` shuffling. It prevents two checks from
  wrongly failing on binary classifiers.
  By :user:`Antoine Baker <antoinebaker>`. :pr:`30775`

- |Fix| :func:`utils.extmath.randomized_svd` and :func:`utils.extmath.randomized_range_finder`
  now validate their input array to fail early with an informative error message on
  invalid input.
  By :user:`Connor Lane <clane9>`. :pr:`30819`

.. rubric:: Code and documentation contributors

Thanks to everyone who has contributed to the maintenance and improvement of
the project since version 1.6, including:

4hm3d, Aaron Schumacher, Abhijeetsingh Meena, Acciaro Gennaro Daniele,
Achraf Tasfaout, Adriano Leão, Adrien Linares, Adrin Jalali, Agriya Khetarpal,
Aiden Frank, Aitsaid Azzedine Idir, ajay-sentry, Akanksha Mhadolkar, Alfredo
Saucedo, Anderson Chaves, Andres Guzman-Ballen, Aniruddha Saha, antoinebaker,
Antony Lee, Arjun S, ArthurDbrn, Arturo, Arturo Amor, ash, Ashton Powell,
ayoub.agouzoul, Ayrat, Bagus Tris Atmaja, Benjamin Danek, Boney Patel, Camille
Troillard, Chems Ben, Christian Lorentzen, Christian Veenhuis, Christine P.
Chai, claudio, Code_Blooded, Colas, Colin Coe, Connor Lane, Corey Farwell,
Daniel Agyapong, Dan Schult, Dea María Léon, Deepak Saldanha,
dependabot[bot], Dhyey Findoriya, Dimitri Papadopoulos Orfanos, Dmitry Kobak,
Domenico, Elham Babaei, emelia-hdz, EmilyXinyi, Emma Carballal, Eric Larson,
Eugen-Bleck, Evgeni Burovski, fabianhenning, Gael Varoquaux, GaetandeCast, Gil
Ramot, Gordon Grey, Goutam, G Sreeja, Guillaume Lemaitre, Haesun Park, Hanjun
Kim, Helder Geovane Gomes de Lima, Henri Bonamy, Hleb Levitski, Hugo Boulenger,
IlyaSolomatin, Irene, Jérémie du Boisberranger, Jérôme Dockès,
JoaoRodriguesIST, Joel Nothman, Josh, jshn9515, KALLA GANASEKHAR, Kevin Klein,
Loic Esteve, Lucas Colley, Luc Rocher, Lucy Liu, Luis M. B. Varona, lunovian,
Mamduh Zabidi, Marc Bresson, Marco Edward Gorelli, Marco Maggi, Maren
Westermann, Marie Sacksick, Marija Vlajic, Martin Jurča, Mayank Raj, Michael
Burkhart, Miguel González Duque, Mihir Waknis, Miro Hrončok, Mohamed Ali
SRIR, Mohamed DHIFALLAH, mohammed benyamna, Mohit Singh Thakur, Mounir Lbath,
myenugula, Natalia Mokeeva, Nicolas Bolle, Olivier Grisel, omahs, Omar Salman,
Pedro Lopes, Pedro Olivares, Peter Holzer, Preyas Shah, Radovenchyk, Rahil
Parikh, Rémi Flamary, Reshama Shaikh, Richard Harris, Rishab Saini,
rolandrmgservices, SanchitD, Santiago Castro, Santiago Víquez, saskra,
scikit-learn-bot, Scott Huberty, Shaurya Bisht, Shivam, Shruti Nath, Siddharth
Bansal, SIKAI ZHANG, Simarjot Sidhu, sisird864, SiyuJin-1, Somdutta Banerjee,
Sortofamudkip, sotagg, Sourabh Kumar, Stefan, Stefanie Senger, Stefano Gaspari,
Steffen Rehberg, Stephen Pardy, Success Moses, Sylvain Combettes, Tahar
Allouche, Thomas J. Fan, Thomas Li, ThorbenMaa, Tim Head, Tingwei Zhu, TJ
Norred, Umberto Fasci, UV, Vasco Pereira, Vassilis Margonis, Velislav
Babatchev, Victoria Shevchenko, viktor765, Vipsa Kamani, VirenPassi, Virgil
Chan, vpz, Xiao Yuan, Yaich Mohamed, Yair Shimony, Yao Xiao, Yaroslav
Halchenko, Yulia Vilensky, Yuvi Panda
