- The parameters `C` of :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegression` and `Cs` of
  :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV` are deprecated and will be removed in
  version 1.11. Use `alpha` and `alphas` instead. The new parameters also have new
  default values:

  - `alpha=None` for `LogisticRegression`, meaning `C` will be used. Starting with
    version 1.11 the default will chang to `alpha=1e-4`. Note that this is a small
    regularization.
  - `alphas=None` for `LogisticRegressionCV`, meaning `Cs` will be used. Starting with
    version 1.11 the default will change to `alphas=10`. This creates a grid of 10
    values of alpha between 1e-7 to 1e2, equally spaced on the log scale.

  To silence deprecation warnings, set `alpha=1e-4` and `alphas=10` (or any other
  value) explicitly during the deprecation period. Note that the relation between old
  and new parameters is `C=1/(alpha * n_samples)` or
  `C=1/(alpha * np.sum(sample_weight))`.

  This way, the penalty parameterization of most linear models is aligned, e.g.
  :class:`linear_model.Lasso`, :class:`linear_model.ElasticNet` and
  :class:`linear_model.PoissonRegressor` to name a few. For instance,
  :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegression(alpha=1.23)` is the same model as
  :class:`linear_model.SGDClassifier(loss="log_loss", alpha=1.23)` for binary targets.

  For :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV`, also the attributes `C_` and `Cs_`
  are deprecated. Use the new attributes `alpha_` and `alphas_` instead.
  By :user:`Christian Lorentzen <lorentzenchr>`.
